Since 28 February 2026, the United States and Israel have been engaged in a war with Iran and its regional allies. The conflict began when the US and Israel launched airstrikes on Iran, targeting military and government sites and assassinating several Iranian officials, including Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. The surprise attacks were launched during negotiations between Iran and the US regarding Iran's nuclear program. Iran responded with missile and drone strikes on Israel, US bases, and US-allied Arab countries in West Asia; and the closure of the Strait of Hormuz, disrupting global trade.
After the Middle Eastern crisis began in 2023, Iran and Israel exchanged missile strikes in 2024, and again during the Twelve-Day War in June 2025, which resulted in a US airstrike on Iranian nuclear sites. In January 2026, Iranian security forces massacred thousands of civilians in their crackdown on the largest Iranian protests since 1979. US president Donald Trump responded by threatening military action and starting the largest US military buildup in the region since the 2003 US-led invasion of Iraq.
Israeli–US airstrikes damaged military bases, government buildings, schools, hospitals, and heritage sites and resulted in civilian casualties. In retaliation, Iran launched hundreds of drones and ballistic missiles at Israel, US military bases in the region, and at neighbouring Arab countries including Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. Iran and its proxies launched strikes on Iraq's Kurdistan. Drones or missiles also appeared to target Azerbaijan, Turkey, and Britain's Akrotiri military base on Cyprus. The conflict between Hezbollah and Israel escalated into the 2026 Lebanon war, killing more than 2,000 civilians and militants.
The Trump administration gave diverse explanations for starting the war, including forestalling Iranian retaliation after an expected Israeli attack, destroying Iran's missile capabilities and prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon, seizing Iran's oil resources, or achieving regime change. Iranian and some US officials rejected claims that Iran had been preparing an attack. The International Atomic Energy Agency said that, while Iran has refused to allow inspections of its damaged sites after the 2025 war, there was no evidence of an ongoing nuclear weapons program. United Nations secretary-general António Guterres and several uninvolved countries condemned the US–Israeli strikes; the UN Security Council passed a resolution condemning Iran's retaliatory strikes on the Gulf states. Critics of the war, including legal and international relations experts, described the US attacks as illegal under US law, an act of imperialism, and a violation of Iran's sovereignty under international law.
The war's economic impact includes the largest supply disruption in the history of the global oil market, as well as disruptions to the natural gas, fertilizer, aviation and tourism industries, and volatility in financial markets. Oil and gas shipments were disrupted by Iran's closure of the Hormuz Strait and Israeli and Iranian attacks on energy facilities. On 19 March, the cost of the war to the US military was estimated at US$18 billion, and the Pentagon requested a further US$200 billion. By 31 March, the cost to Arab countries was estimated at over US$120 billion. The Iranian government assessed the damage to their own economy as at least $300 billion and possibly as much as $1 trillion by 11 April.
Trump claimed victory several times and claimed that Iran had "nothing left in a military sense". Iran, the US and Israel agreed to a two-week ceasefire brokered by Pakistan, beginning on 8 April; a ceasefire in Lebanon began on 16 April. The Iranian ceasefire came under strain as Iran refused to re-open the Hormuz strait, blaming the Israeli strikes in Lebanon. After the failure of the Islamabad Talks, Trump said he no longer cared about negotiations, and announced a naval blockade of Iran from 13 April; there is currently a "dual blockade", with the US Navy blockading Iran and Iran blockading the Persian Gulf. Trump has extended the truce indefinitely, but further strikes have occurred since.


== Background ==


=== Iran's relations with the United States and Israel ===

A US- and UK-backed coup d'état in 1953 deposed Iranian prime minister Mohammad Mosaddegh due to his nationalization of the oil industry, strengthening the rule of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Israel maintained ties with Iran as part of its alliance of the periphery strategy. Resentment of the Shah's deference to Western interests and his autocratic rule led to the 1979 revolution in which Pahlavi was overthrown and replaced by an Islamic republic. Iran severed diplomatic ties with the US and Israel and held the American embassy staff hostage for over a year.
During the Iran–Iraq War, the US supported Iraq. In 1988, a US warship was struck by an Iranian mine; the US responded by attacking Iran's navy. A few months later, the US mistakenly shot down a civilian Iranian flight. Iran started a ballistic missile program to deter Iraqi missile attacks on Iranian cities and to compensate for its lack of a modern air force due to sanctions.
Starting in the 1980s, Iran began engaging in proxy conflicts throughout the Middle East. Iran backed Hezbollah in Lebanon against Israel during and after the Lebanese Civil War. During the Iraq War, Iran supported militias fighting the US in Iraq. Along with the Houthis in Yemen and other groups in Syria and Palestine, these proxy groups became part of the informal 'Axis of Resistance' committed to countering American, Israeli, Saudi, and Emirati influence in the region.
In 2002, Iran's covert expansion of its nuclear program was first revealed. Beginning in 2006, the United Nations Security Council responded with a series of sanctions against Iran, with the US imposing its own series of sanctions against Iran. The US and Israel conducted a campaign of cyberwarfare against Iranian nuclear facilities to disrupt their operations, while Israel assassinated several top Iranian nuclear scientists. The conflict escalated in January 2020 when President Trump ordered the assassination of Qasem Soleimani, the commander of the Quds Force.
Tensions escalated following the October 7 attacks on Israel and the start of the Gaza war. Israel fought Iran-backed militias across the Middle East, including Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Houthis. Israeli strikes on the Iranian consulate in Damascus and the assassination of Ismail Haniyeh were met with Iranian strikes on Israel in April and October. In June 2025, Israel launched the Twelve-Day War by attacking Iranian military and nuclear facilities, provoking Iranian counter-strikes. The US also struck Iranian nuclear facilities during the Twelve-Day War, which ended in a ceasefire.
In early 2026, Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu lobbied President Donald Trump for a joint military strike on Iran, specifically targeting its leadership. Following high-level meetings in February, Trump authorized "Operation Epic Fury", with reports citing Israeli intelligence provided by Netanyahu as a decisive factor in the decision.


=== Iran nuclear issue ===

Iran suspended its AMAD Project pursuant to Ali Khamenei's fatwa against nuclear weapons in 2003. Khamenei banned nuclear weapons of any kind. Iran said it was not seeking nuclear weapons, and that its enrichment efforts were to generate nuclear power for civilian use. UN Security Council (UNSC) concerns about Iran's nuclear program from 2006 led to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) between Iran and the US in 2015.
Despite Iran's compliance with the JCPOA, Trump withdrew the US from the deal in 2018, re-imposed sanctions, and adopted a "maximum pressure" strategy. The Biden administration kept most of these sanctions in place, further damaging Iran's economy. Trump continued the "maximum pressure" approach in his second term. In September 2025, the UN reimposed sanctions on Iran using the "snapback" mechanism, causing the currency to weaken, resulting in price increases for food supplies such as meat, rice, and other staples, freezing Iranian assets abroad, suspending arms transactions, and imposing penalties related to the country's ballistic-missile programme. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent labelled the collapse of the Iranian currency in December 2025 as the strategy's "grand culmination". At his State of the Union Address on 24 February 2026, Trump claimed that Iran had restarted its nuclear program and was developing missiles capable of striking the US. Trump's claims about Iran rebuilding its nuclear program and developing long-range ballistic missiles have contradicted both his previous claims that Iran's nuclear program was "obliterated" and US intelligence reports that Iran did not pose any military threat towards the US and needed until 2035 to build such missiles were it to do so.
A few days later, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reported that Iran had stored highly enriched uranium in an underground facility that was undamaged by US bombings in 2025. Subsequently, Iran denied the IAEA access to nuclear facilities that had been bombed, but did provide access at least once to all unaffected facilities since June 2025. Mohammad Eslami, the head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, said Iran would not permit inspections of facilities struck by the US until the IAEA established rules for the post-war situation, insisting on codified protocols for internationally protected facilities subjected to military attacks, and that the IAEA condemn the attacks.
In February 2026, Iran informed the IAEA that normal safeguards were "legally untenable and materially impracticable," as a result of threats and "acts of aggression," leaving the IAEA unable to verify whether Iran had suspended enrichment or confirm the status of its current stockpile, though it found no evidence Iran was weaponizing. Analysts in the UK and US have characterized Iran's strategy as nuclear hedging, developing the technical infrastructure to assemble a weapon on short notice while stopping short of actual production. The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists said that Iran was using its enrichment program and uranium stockpiles for leverage in international negotiations, and was willing to dilute or export its higher-level enriched uranium in exchange for sanctions relief and prevention of future attacks.


=== Israel nuclear issue ===

Israel is widely believed to possess nuclear weapons, with a stockpile estimated between 90 and 400 nuclear warheads. Israel is the only nuclear-armed country that does not officially acknowledge its nuclear weapons capability. Some scholars have argued that Israel's nuclear weapons have incentivized Iran to develop its own nuclear program, seen as maintaining a balance of nuclear deterrence, or causing a regional nuclear arms race. Citing security threats, Israel rejects international calls to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons or to participate in negotiations of a Middle East nuclear weapon free zone. This has frustrated both US and UK diplomatic efforts on such a zone. Scholars also suggest US tacit acceptance of the Israeli nuclear weapons capability is seen as a double standard that undermines its diplomatic credibility in Middle East nonproliferation negotiations.


== Prelude ==


== Hostilities ==


=== First week (28 February – 6 March) ===

On 27 February at 3:38 p.m. EST (11:08 p.m. IRST), Donald Trump, traveling on Air Force One to Corpus Christi, Texas, gave the order to proceed with Operation Epic Fury. US missiles, drones, and Israeli fighter jets began striking Iran the next day, around 9:45 a.m. IRST (1:15 a.m. EST). The strikes took place during active negotiations over Iran's nuclear program. The attacks coincided with the holy month of Ramadan, during which Muslims fast from dawn to sunset.
The operation was codenamed Operation Roaring Lion by Israel. The Israeli Air Force (IAF) said that it had struck 500 military targets in western and central Iran in the largest combat sortie in its history. Iranian naval vessels were also targeted. Israel later said its initial strikes used over 1,200 bombs in 24 hours. A US official said dozens of US strikes were carried out by planes based around the Middle East and from one or more aircraft carriers.

According to Iran International, quoting the Iranian Students' News Agency, thousands of Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) personnel, including several senior officials, were killed or wounded as several military bases were attacked. Several strikes hit Tehran's Pasteur Street district, where the presidential palace is, and the National Security Council.
The strikes were coupled with cyberattacks on Iranian infrastructure, media, and phone apps, with messages calling on Iranians to rise up against their government. The cyberattacks resulted in a near-total internet blackout in Iran, lasting over 60 hours with connectivity dropping to as low as 1% of normal levels, disrupting government communications, state media, and public services. Iran has since restricted internet access to its people, allowing access only for government-approved users.
Israeli military officials said months-long planning preceded their strikes, allowing them to pinpoint their targets, attain "tactical surprise", and gain US support. Attacking during the morning, rather than at night which was when most of Israel's previous attacks on Iran took place, added to the element of surprise. After the strikes began, Israel declared a state of emergency, citing expectation of an Iranian retaliation, and warned its citizens to remain in protected areas. Israel called up 20,000 reservists in addition to the 50,000 already on duty. The Israeli Ministry of Health moved its hospital operations underground. Israel warned Iranian civilians residing near military industries and infrastructure to evacuate immediately.
At 2:30 a.m. EST on 28 February, Donald Trump released an eight-minute video statement on Truth Social, saying that the purpose of the US strikes in Iran was effectively regime change. Trump said that Iran's "menacing activities" endangered the US and its allies. He cited the Iran hostage crisis, support for proxies such as Hamas and Hezbollah, and its killings of protesters. Trump cited Iran calling "Death to America" and its alleged history of attacking US civilians and soldiers as evidence of Iran's intent against the United States.
Trump and Benjamin Netanyahu both warned of the potential threat of nuclear weapons in Iran and called on the Iranian people to overthrow their government. The Times of Israel reported that Defense Minister Israel Katz labeled the strikes a "pre-emptive attack" intended to "remove threats to the State of Israel". Iran rejected claims that it intended to attack the United States, citing the aggressive posture of the US armed forces as evidence.

Iranian forces reacted within hours by launching missiles and drones. Iran codenamed its military response Operation True Promise IV. Iranian state media also dubbed the events as the Ramadan War, as the US-Israeli attacks coincided with the holy month of Ramadan.
Iran struck Israeli targets in Tel Aviv and Haifa as well as multiple countries throughout the Persian Gulf region. Major targets included Bahrain's capital Manama, Kuwait International Airport, the United Arab Emirates' capital Abu Dhabi, Riyadh and Eastern Province in Saudi Arabia, and Erbil International Airport and the US Consulate General in Erbil in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Iran reported striking the US bases of Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, Ali Al Salem Air Base in Kuwait, Al Dhafra Air Base in the UAE, and the US Navy Fifth Fleet headquarters in Bahrain. Local sources said Iran used Shahed drones, which are among the weapons most used by Iran and its proxies, including Hamas and Hezbollah. On 1 or 2 March, Iran struck the radar bases for US THAAD missile defense systems in Jordan, the UAE and Saudi Arabia, destroying at least one of them.
Israel launched a new wave of strikes against Iranian targets. Iran launched missiles and drones on Bahrain, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE. The United Kingdom reported "two missiles fired in the direction of Cyprus", but that they "don't believe they were targeted at Cyprus". However, the presidents of Cyprus and Northern Cyprus both denied the claims that any missiles were fired at Cyprus.  Two oil tankers, the Palau-flagged Skylight and the Marshall Islands-flagged MKD VYOM, were targeted off the coast of Oman. Shipping through the Strait of Hormuz slowed to a standstill, with 150 freight ships, including many oil tankers, stalled.
To avert further Iranian strikes, the E3 (the UK, France, and Germany) resolved to back, if needed, "proportionate military defensive measures" against drones and ballistic missiles, signaling the potential for direct involvement. British prime minister Keir Starmer said that US can use British bases for "defensive" strikes on Iran and disclosed that Ukrainian and other specialists would aid Gulf efforts to foil Iranian drone strikes. CNN reported that Saudi Crown Prince Salman, with US backing, vowed to employ military force against further Iranian incursions, calling Iranian strikes "cowardly" due to Saudi airspace being closed to US and Israeli attackers. On 1 March, Trump announced that the US had accepted an Iranian proposal to further negotiations. However, Ali Larijani subsequently ruled out talks.

Trump issued letters to Congress leaders according to the 1973 War Powers Resolution.
On 2 March, the US embassy in Kuwait was struck and subsequently closed indefinitely; no casualties were reported. The US-flagged tanker Stena Imperative and the Honduras-flagged tanker Athe Nova were also struck. A senior official and advisor to the IRGC commander said he would set fire to any ship coming through the Strait of Hormuz, and added that no oil will leave the area.
Qatar shot down two Iranian Su-24 bombers, making it the first nation to shoot down an Iranian aircraft in the conflict. The Qatari Ministry of Defense announced that Ras Laffan Industrial City and Mesaieed Industrial Area were struck by two Iranian drones. On 6 March, it was reported that according to satellite imagery analysis by both Bloomberg and the Energy Economics and Society Research Institute in Tokyo, Ras Laffan, the main gas facility in Qatar, appeared to have not been damaged before the "unprecedented shutdown" which sent fuel prices higher.

The United States and Israel attacked the Natanz Nuclear Facility and the Iranian media reported damage to the Khatam-al-Anbia and Gandhi hospitals. A friendly fire incident took place when the pilot of an F/A-18 of the Kuwait Air Force shot down three US F-15E fighters. Israel and Hezbollah exchanged strikes. Hezbollah began firing rockets and missiles on Israel in retaliation for the killing of Khamenei. Hezbollah later claimed that the attack was a "defensive act" after over a year of Israeli attacks despite a 2024 truce. It added that it restarted fighting to force Israel to stop its aggression and evacuate from seized Lebanese territories, emphasizing that the move was unrelated to the war.
Lebanon banned military activities by Hezbollah after the attacks. An IDF spokesperson issued an emergency statement stating that the attack is to be considered "an official declaration of war by Hezbollah", vowing to "neutralize" the threat. Israel struck southern Lebanon, Beirut, and the Beqaa Valley. The IDF said that it killed the head of Hezbollah's intelligence headquarters Hussein Makled in the strikes. In Lebanon, the IDF killed Adham Adnan al-Othman, the head of Palestinian Islamic Jihad's armed wing, Al-Quds Brigades, in Lebanon.
The Royal Air Force station at Akrotiri, Cyprus, was targeted by a drone strike around midnight local time, with one causing minor damage. Another strike on Cyprus led to Greece announcing that they would deploy frigates and F-16s to defend Cyprus from any further strikes by Iran. The pro-Iran militant group Guardians of the Blood Brigade claimed responsibility for attacks on the US Victory Base near Baghdad International Airport and Erbil, Kurdistan Region, Iraq. The Islamic Resistance in Iraq claimed responsibility for over 23 drone strikes on US assets in Erbil.

On 3 March, US and Israeli strikes reportedly destroyed the Supreme National Security Council (SNSC) headquarters, the Expediency Discernment Council building in Tehran, and what Israeli officials described as an underground nuclear weapons facility called Min Zadai. The proximity of these strikes to the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant (about 12 km (7.5 mi) away) prompted the Russian agency Rosatom to suspend construction on new units and evacuate non-essential staff due to a loss of communication with Iranian officials.
US officials said US forces severely damaged Iran's naval capabilities, mainly in the Gulf of Oman, where several Iranian warships have reportedly been destroyed and key bases hit. Debris from an airstrike damaged Golestan Palace, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, causing UNESCO to issue a statement that damaging UNESCO property is against international law.
Israel Katz authorized a ground invasion of Lebanon on 3 March. They were later followed by a ground incursion in southern Lebanon with forces from the 91st Division with the goal to establish a "security layer" for the Israeli residents of northern settlements against Hezbollah, expecting to destroy their infrastructure in the Israel-Lebanon border. The Lebanese government reported that such Israeli preventive attacks reached Kfarkela and Qouzah, provoking the Lebanese army to do a redeployment from newly established border posts amid escalating Israeli activity in violation of the 2024 Israel–Lebanon ceasefire agreement. Israel also reported that it killed Daoud Alizadeh, the commander of the Quds Force's Lebanon branch, in Tehran.

Western diplomats and other sources told The Jerusalem Post that Qatar had struck Iran after Iran had attempted to strike Doha's airport and Qatar shot down two Iranian Su-24 bombers; Channel 12 also reported Qatari strikes. Qatari Foreign Ministry spokesperson Majed al-Ansari denied the accusation that Qatar had joined the "campaign targeting Iran". An IRGC general warned it would hit all economic hubs in the Middle East, and Abbas Araghchi said that any defensive European military involvement would be considered an act of war.

On 4 March, US secretary of state Marco Rubio announced that the US-Israeli attacks on Iran would increase in their intensity. Israel attacks hit the Basij headquarters. Mojtaba Khamenei survived an airstrike. The IDF announced that an F-35I "Adir" shot down a Russian-made Iranian Yak-130 fighter jet over Tehran, the first time that an F-35 has ever shot down a crewed fighter jet in air-to-air combat and the first time the Israeli Air Force shot down an aircraft since 1985.
Iran launched strikes against the Al Udeid Air Base, as well as Aramco's Ras Tanura oil refining facility. The United States ordered the evacuation of non-essential workers in Cyprus in anticipation of Iranian strikes and issued a travel warning for the country. A ballistic missile launched from Iranian territory was intercepted by NATO integrated air defense systems as it entered Turkish airspace, marking a significant escalation in the regional conflict. Turkey asserted its right to self-defense after the missile landed in Dörtyol, Hatay Province, and NATO secretary general Mark Rutte stated that the alliance was committed to defending Turkey.

An Iranian Navy frigate, IRIS Dena, was sunk in the Indian Ocean by United States Navy submarine USS Charlotte, about 40 nautical miles (74 km; 46 mi) south of Galle, Sri Lanka. The vessel was returning to Iran following its participation in the International Fleet Review 2026 and the multilateral Exercise MILAN at Visakhapatnam, India. The exercise required participating ships not to carry any ammunition, and the US likely knew the Dena was defenseless, since it also sent a maritime patrol aircraft to participate. It was the first ship sunk by a submarine in active combat since the Falklands War, and the first by an American submarine since World War II. According to the Iranian army, 104 Iranians were killed and 32 were injured from this attack.

The government of Azerbaijan said on 5 March that two drones from Iran struck Azerbaijan's Nakhchivan exclave damaging an airport and injuring two civilians. Keir Starmer confirmed that the UK's bases on Cyprus would be used to defend the airspace of Jordan from Iranian drones, while Italy, the Netherlands and Spain confirmed that they would be sending warships to defend Cyprus. Ireland stated that they would be willing to protect Cyprus and join the European defense coalition that had mobilized around the island if requested. The IDF killed Hamas official Wassim Attallah al-Ali in Beddawi, Lebanon.

Trump said on 6 March that there are "no time limits" for how long the war will continue for, and Hegseth stated that the war has "only just begun". The Iranian tanker IRIS Bushehr was interned by the Sri Lanka Navy, marking the first instance of a warship being interned in a neutral country since World War II.


=== Second week (7–13 March) ===

On 7 March, the US sent a third aircraft carrier, USS George H. W. Bush, to the Middle East. The British aircraft carrier HMS Prince of Wales was placed on advanced readiness to defend British interests in the region. Pezeshkian told reporters on 7 March that Iran would stop striking neighbors from 7 March onwards unless an attack originated from there. Despite this, Dubai International Airport was later attacked by Iranian drones. NDTV reported that following a week's hostilities, Iran might only have around one thousand ballistic missiles left. On 7 March, ballistic missiles were fired from Bahrain toward Iran, likely by US forces.
On 8 March, Khamenei's second son, Mojtaba, was designated as Iran's new supreme leader. Also on 8 March, US Central Command posted a message on X in Persian and Arabic which "strongly urge[s] civilians in Iran to stay at home" and alleging that "[t]he Iranian regime is knowingly endangering innocent lives by using heavily populated civilian areas to conduct military operations, including launching one-way attack drones and ballistic missiles".
Israeli airstrikes hit some of Iran's oil storage facilities, killing four people. Strikes on fuel depots near Tehran caused a "river of fire" to pour out along the streets in the surrounding area, and the city became engulfed in a cloud of thick black smoke, causing black toxic acidic rain to fall in the surrounding area. Residents were advised by Iranian authorities to stay indoors, wear masks when outside, and conserve food and fuel. Kuwait reported that two of its officers were killed while performing duties. The Saudi Civil Defense agency said that a strike on a compound in Al-Kharj killed two people and injured 12 others. US Central Command announced the death of a seventh US service member from an Iranian attack.
The United Kingdom's Ministry of Defense confirmed that its forces had intercepted an Iranian drone headed towards Iraq. Additionally, the Ministry declared their intention to send a Merlin helicopter to the region to help aid in detecting future aerial threats. According to the Iranian Red Crescent Society, a total of 65 schools and 32 medical facilities (such as hospitals and pharmacies) have been targeted since the war started, and more than 10,000 civilian sites have been damaged. On 9 March, NATO confirmed the interception of a second ballistic missile over Turkish air space, landing in the area of Gaziantep. Meanwhile, Turkey deployed six F-16s and air defence systems to Northern Cyprus to ensure its security.
Trump claimed that "the war is very complete, pretty much", after speaking with Russian president Vladimir Putin, and said "we already won the war in many ways." He additionally claimed that the Strait of Hormuz was open but also expressed interest in taking it over from Iran. Trump later went back on some of his comments during a press conference held later that day, supporting Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth in stating that the war was just the "beginning of building a new country" and that it would end "soon". However, Trump also said that the US will have the "most intense day" of strikes on Tuesday. Following Syrian president Ahmed al-Sharaa's support for the Lebanon's objective to disarm Hezbollah, the group targeted the city of Inkhil in Syria. About a dozen B-1B bombers arrived at bases in Europe. Five landed at the Fairford Royal Air Force base, UK, joining three B-52 bombers, while three others were redirected to Ramstein Air Base, Germany.

GPS jamming of uncertain origin has disrupted navigation of ships near the Strait of Hormuz, which may lead to disastrous accidents for oil tankers. The United States Department of State (supported by Saudi Arabia) designated the Muslim Brotherhood branch in Sudan (a Sudanese Islamist organization) as a terrorist organization due to its nexus with the Axis of Resistance. Members of their militia fought alongside the IRGC due to the contacts established with the Al-Bara' ibn Malik Battalion during the Iranian intervention in Sudan. On 10 March, a senior IRGC commander stated that Iran was only firing missiles with payloads of 1,000 kg or more. AFP reported that Iran's attacks were the "most intense and heaviest" since the start of the war. This shows a shift in tactics from saturating air defences to high-impact penetration strikes. On the same day, top American general Dan Caine acknowledged that Iran was fighting back, but not harder than the U.S. expected before the war.
Following the Syrian presidency's support for the disarmament of Hezbollah and a campaign of mobilization by the Syrian army on the Lebanese border, shells from Lebanon landed in the town of Serghaya, 20 km (12 mi) from Damascus where the Syrian Armed Forces forces presided. The strikes were confirmed by the Operations Authority of the Syrian Army. Later in the day, Israel issued an urgent evacuation notice to southern suburbs of Beirut.
US admiral Brad Cooper reported that Iran's ballistic missile launch rate fell 90% from day one of the war and their drone launch rate fell 83%. Defense analyst AJ Jaff reported that the missile launch rate fell 92% (480 to 40) and the drone launch rate fell 92% (720 to 60). On 11 March 11 B-1 and three B-52 US bombers were deployed to RAF Fairford in the UK, where long-range photography showed bombs being prepared for loading. This followed US war secretary Pete Hegseth's statement that it was the "most intense day of strikes inside Iran", though the targets of the mission remain unknown.
A branch of Bank Sepah in Tehran was hit by a strike, prompting the IRGC to warn that in the future, they could retaliate by striking US or Israeli banks in the region. Iran hit Stryker, a US-based medical supply company with a cyber attack. On 12 March, UNICEF reported that more than 1,100 children were injured or killed (200 reportedly killed in Iran, 91 in Lebanon, 4 in Israel, and 1 in Kuwait), hundreds of thousands displaced, and millions unable to attend schools from the violence of the war since it started. It also noted that these numbers will likely increase.
Iranian deputy intelligence minister Akbar Ghaffari was killed in an airstrike. An Iranian attack set two oil tankers on fire off the Iraqi coast, killing one person and prompting Iraq to suspend all oil terminal operations. The historical Safavid-era building of Rashk-e Jenan, also known as the Rashk Palace, was destroyed by direct US-Israeli strikes. Other buildings that were damaged according to Ruhollah Seyed al-Asgari, the deputy director of cultural heritage for Isfahan province, include Chehel Sotoun pavilion, the Rakib Khaneh Mansion, the Timurid Hall, the Ashraf Hall and the windows of Ali Qapu palace. Many of the affected buildings and monuments were legally protected by the Blue Shield International, which called damaging such sites a war crime. Six French soldiers were injured in a drone strike at a base in Mala Qara, Iraqi Kurdistan. French president Emmanuel Macron announced on 13 March that one French soldier was killed in the attack.

Also on 13 March, to help deal with the economic costs of the war, the US temporarily lifted restrictions on the sale of Russian oil. However, oil prices have barely been affected by this. Iran announced a coordinated offensive by IRGC Navy, the Iranian Army, and Hezbollah against Israel and US bases. Israel reported that 58 people have been hospitalized due to injuries following a missile strike. Iran again targeted Gulf countries with missiles and drones, causing oil prices to rise. Bahrain reported attacks on fuel tanks. Two people were injured when a "hostile drone" struck a residential building in Kuwait. The Kuwaiti authorities also stated that defense equipment and the country's main international airport were attacked, and six power lines were reported to have gone out of service. AFP reported that explosions were heard in downtown Dubai. At the same time, the British Maritime Trade Operations Agency said a container ship was attacked 35 nautical miles (65 kilometers) north of Jebel Ali in the UAE. According to Al Jazeera Arabic, sirens went off in every city across Jordan.
For the third time in the war, ballistic missiles entered Turkish air space and were intercepted, with explosions heard in the proximity of the city of Adana as well as sirens from Incirlik Air Base. Israel struck several IRGC checkpoints in Iran. According to Reuters, Israel attacked the checkpoints after receiving tip-offs by on the ground informants. Reuters also reported Israel had struck positions of the Basij used to suppress Iranian protests.


=== Third week (14–20 March) ===

As of the third week, analysts found little evidence of significant defections or desertions in the Iranian military; military defections have been considered a necessary condition for regime change. The US conducted a large-scale attack on Kharg Island, a key oil export hub home to 90 percent of Iran's oil exports. Over 90 military sites were targeted while the oil infrastructure was not targeted "for reasons of decency", according to Trump. Oil prices have risen over 40 percent since the start of the war. According to CENTCOM, around 90 military targets were struck, while the island's oil infrastructure was not targeted. On 14 March, Kata'ib Hezbollah security commander Abu Ali al-Askari was killed in an airstrike in Baghdad, according to the group.
The first two floors of the Royal Tulip Al Rasheed Hotel in Baghdad's Green Zone were hit by a drone whilst hosting a European Union and Saudi Arabian delegation. The attack was not claimed by anyone; however, due to the proximity of a similar attack that had happened 48 hours earlier on the US embassy in Baghdad, there were suspicions of it being an Iranian attack.

On 16 March, both China and US-aligned NATO nations in Europe rejected Trump's call to provide military support to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Trump rebuked his NATO allies, calling their decision a "very foolish mistake". On 17 March, Trump made a statement on Truth Social renouncing NATO's assistance, and unexpectedly, US allies in the Indo-Pacific, namely Japan, South Korea, and Australia, for refusing to join US-led attacks on Iran during the war. In the same statement, Trump declared that the United States "[does] not need the help of anyone" regarding the war.
In the early morning of 17 March, several senior Iranian officials, including Ali Larijani and Basij chief Gholamreza Soleimani were targeted by Israeli airstrikes. Both their deaths were later confirmed by Iranian state media. In response, Iran launched a missile barrage that killed two Israeli civilians in Ramat Gan. The same day, Israel launched a ground invasion of southern Lebanon.
On 18 March, in a major escalation, Israel struck the South Pars natural gas field in the Persian Gulf and its neighboring refineries in Iran with US coordination. In retaliation, Iran attacked the world's largest LNG production facility in Qatar. Trump claimed he was not aware of the South Pars attack, promised that there would be no more Israeli attacks on Iranian oil infrastructure, and threatened Iran not to continue attacking Qatari energy infrastructure. On the same day, Israel said it had killed Iranian intelligence minister Esmaeil Khatib in an overnight airstrike. Pezeshkian confirmed Khatib's killing on the same day. A hair salon in Beit Awwa was struck by a projectile, killing four women and injuring six, with Israeli authorities stating that it was most likely cluster munitions and Palestinian authorities saying it was an errant Israeli interceptor.

On 19 March, a US F-35 made an emergency landing after a suspected hit by Iranian forces. A BAZAN Group refinery in Haifa was hit during a broader Iranian missile attack on the area as a retaliation for Israeli attacks on South Pars gas facilities. Netanyahu insisted that "You can't make a revolution from the air" and that "there must be a ground component — I won't share with you all the options", implying that there was a potential for limited assault operations involving soldiers on the ground in Iran. The US began an aerial campaign against Iranian vessels and drones in the Strait of Hormuz as part of an effort to reopen it to international shipping.


=== Fourth week (21–27 March) ===

Admiral Brad Cooper said that the US military had so far struck more than 8,000 Iranian military targets, including 130 vessels. On 21 March, the US conducted strikes on the Natanz Nuclear Facility using bunker buster bombs to target the site. Russia condemned the strikes on Natanz as a "blatant violation of international law," while the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) urged military restraint "to avoid any risk of a nuclear accident". In response, Iran struck the southern Israeli town of Dimona, injuring at least 78 people. Iran said that it targeted the Shimon Peres Negev Nuclear Research Center.
Citing unnamed US officials, CNN and The Wall Street Journal reported that Iran unsuccessfully attempted to strike the joint US–UK military base at Diego Garcia on the Chagos Islands in the British Indian Ocean Territory. The report said one of the missiles broke apart mid-flight, while another was intercepted by a SM-3 air defence missile launched by a US warship. Israel said that Iran used a two-stage intercontinental ballistic missile to target the island. Iran denied launching missiles towards Diego Garcia, saying that it was an Israeli false flag attack. No evidence has been presented that the alleged Iranian missiles neared Diego Garcia or that one was intercepted.

The Houthi movement in Yemen warned that it would respond to any escalation against Iran, including efforts to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. It specifically warned the two Arab countries offering to join the Strait of Hormuz campaign—Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates—that they "will be the first to lose in this battle". The Houthis further threatened to join the war in the event that US allies joined the attack on Iran or if the US and Israel used the Red Sea to carry out operations. Lebanon's government expelled the Iranian ambassador.
Trump issued an ultimatum to Iran, threatening to strike its power plants unless it opened the Strait of Hormuz within 48 hours. Iran doubled down, threatening to "completely" close the Strait of Hormuz and strike vital infrastructure across the region such as energy and desalination facilities critical for drinking water. Iranian opposition figure and former crown prince Reza Pahlavi called on Trump and Netanyahu to target the military while sparing civilian infrastructure which "Iranians will need to rebuild our country." Halfway through the deadline, Trump announced that he was postponing strikes against Iranian power plants for five days, and said the US was negotiating with Iran to end the war. Iran denied the talks ever took place or were taking place and called the president "deceitful". Iran rejected the 15-point peace plan presented by the US. Iran asserted that Lebanon must be included as part of a ceasefire deal, thereby making a ceasefire conditional on an end to the 2026 Lebanon war against Hezbollah.
On 24 March, Israel or its allies shot down an Iranian missile crossing above Lebanon at high altitude, according to the Lebanese army, which also confirmed that the missile was not targeting Lebanon. This was the first time during the current conflict when a shootdown of an Iranian missile took place over Lebanese territory.
A US strike on the Habbaniya military base—which hosts units from the Popular Mobilization Forces—in Al Anbar Governorate killed seven members of the Iraqi Armed Forces and injured 13 others. In response, Iraqi prime minister Mohammed Shia' al-Sudani summoned the US embassy's chargé d'affaires in Baghdad. Iranian state media threatened that Iran could seize Bahraini and Emirati territory if the US "makes any mistakes", while signaling its readiness to open a new front in Yemen by closing the Bab al-Mandab with the Houthis. Israel said it killed Iran's top naval commander, Alireza Tangsiri, purportedly as part of an effort to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, which Katz said Tangsiri was "directly responsible" for the closure of.
On 27 March, a day after Trump and Hegseth announced the "neutralization" of Iran's military, an Iranian missile and drone strike on Prince Sultan Air Base damaged several US refueling aircraft and injured at least 15 US soldiers. An E-3 Sentry was also damaged by the strike. Military analyst Cedric Leighton described the attack as a "a serious blow to [US] surveillance capabilities". Iran showed no signs of ceding its control over the Strait of Hormuz. The same day, Iran blocked two Chinese ships from entering the strait and sought to formalize fees for ships passing through it. Despite pushes for talks, Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz publicly vowed to "intensify and expand" Israeli attacks in Iran. The same day, the Shahid Khondab Heavy Water Complex in Arak, which has in the past been used to test uranium enrichment, and the Ardakan yellowcake production plant in Yazd Province were confirmed to have been damaged in Israeli airstrikes.


=== Fifth week (28 March – 3 April) ===

The Houthis joined the war on 28 March launching a ballistic missile towards Israel. The Houthis said that they had launched ballistic missiles targeting "sensitive" military sites in Israel, and vowed to continue the attacks "until the aggression on all resistance fronts stops". The missile was intercepted and no casualties were reported. The Houthis subsequently launched a second missile at Eilat. In response, the internationally recognized Yemeni government condemned Iran's "frequent attempts to drag Yemen" into conflict "through its terrorist militias". On the same day, 2,500 US marines from the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit arrived in the Middle East. They are intended to be part of the effort to open the Strait of Hormuz.
US Central Command stated that it had struck over 11,000 targets in Iran since the beginning of the war. On 28 March, joint US–Israeli airstrikes severely damaged several residential and civilian facilities, including the Iran University of Science and Technology. In response, Iran threatened to attack Israeli and American colleges across the Middle East. Airstrikes also struck a 10,000-cubic-meter water reservoir in Haftkel, in Khuzestan province.
An Iranian missile struck a chemical plant in the Ne'ot Hovav industrial zone, injuring one person and causing fears of a hazardous leak. A convoy of the Iraqi Popular Mobilization Forces was seen entering Khorramshahr in southwestern Iran. Eleven-year-old child soldier Alireza Jafari died following an Israeli drone strike.
On 29 March, Trump stated that he would prefer to "take the oil in Iran". He proposed taking Iran's oil export center, Kharg Island, claiming that the United States could capture the territory "very easily", and implying that the US could occupy it for some time.
On 30 March, Trump said on Truth Social that if a deal was not reached soon and the Strait of Hormuz reopened, the US would conclude the war by destroying all of Iran's power plants, oil wells, Kharg Island, and possibly all its desalinization plants, although the feasibility and strategic value of some of Trump's threats were contested. On the same day Turkey and NATO intercepted the fourth missile directed towards Turkish territory. Iran denied firing a missile at Turkey, claiming that it was a false flag attack. The US began flying B-52 bombers over Iranian territory for the first time, indicating its confidence of air supremacy over Iran. The US used bombers to target an ammunition depot and air base in Isfahan, causing vast explosions. U.S-allied Gulf states such as Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, and Bahrain reportedly pushed Trump to continue the war until there are significant changes in Iran's leadership. American journalist Shelly Kittleson was kidnapped in Baghdad by Kata'ib Hezbollah—the strongest faction within the PMF—who demanded that the Iraqi government release several detained members of the group.
On 1 April, Mehr News Agency, a semi-official Iranian government news outlet, reported that policy expert and former foreign minister Kamal Kharazi was seriously injured and his wife was killed in an airstrike which hit his home. Iranian officials described the attack as an attempt to derail diplomacy, noting that Kharazi was overseeing a possible meeting between Iranian officials and US vice president JD Vance. Airstrikes on the strategically important Hengam Island in the Strait of Hormuz caused seven injuries. Trump indicated that he was no longer concerned about Iran's enriched uranium buried underground. Netanyahu asserted that the US–Israeli strikes have eliminated Iran's ability to produce nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, thereby removing "two existential threats" to Israel. The Iranian president Pezeshkian published an open letter to US citizens.
Late in the day on 1 April, Trump made a speech addressing the nation, in which he said that the strikes have "dramatically curtailed" Iranian missile and drone systems, and added that the attacks on Iran will escalate over the next two to three weeks to "bring them back to the Stone Ages, where they belong".
On 2 April, two US strikes on the B1 bridge between Tehran and Karaj, which was described as the highest bridge in the Middle East, reportedly killed eight people and wounded 95 others, causing it to collapse. Trump gloated on the attack, which experts assessed as a possible war crime. At the time of the attack, many Iranian families had been gathered in the parks below the bridge to celebrate Sizdah Be-dar.
Iran revealed major damage to the century-old medical center Pasteur Institute of Iran. US Defense Secretary Hegseth boasted of "death and destruction from the sky all day long". The IDF also announced that one of its strikes in the Kermanshah area of Iran killed Iranian ballistics missile chief Makram Atimi and several battalion commanders from Atimi's central Iranian ballistic missile unit. An Iranian ballistic missile strike damaged an Israeli drone factory in Petah Tikva.
On 3 April, Iranian forces shot down a US Air Force F-15E Strike Eagle fighter jet over the country, with the wreckage falling in the Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad province of Iran, prompting a search and rescue mission by US helicopters. The pilot was rescued that same day, but the WSO remained missing and was rescued alive 48 hours later.
A US A-10 "Warthog" aircraft was downed and its single crew member ejected near the Strait of Hormuz and was rescued. Iran released a video showing shooting down the aircraft using surface-to-air missile.
On the same day, Tehran's Shahid Beheshti University was hit by airstrikes, making the total number of universities hit to more than 30, according to the Iranian Minister of Science.


=== Sixth week (4–7 April) ===

On 4 April, explosions were reported at an auxiliary building of the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant as well as the Mahshahr Special Petrochemical Zone in Mahshahr, Iran. The airstrikes in Mahshahr killed at least five and injured 170 others. An Iranian missile strike hit in the vicinity of the IDF's HaKirya headquarters in Tel Aviv.
On 5 April, after heavy fighting, the second stranded crew member from the F-15E downed on 3 April was recovered by US forces in a rescue operation, which resulted in damage to helicopters, the shooting down of an A-10 Thunderbolt II, and the destruction of two C-130 Hercules, three IRGC members killed, and several American service members injured.
On 6 April, the IRGC announced that the head of the IRGC's intelligence organisation, Major General Majid Khademi, had been killed in a joint U.S.-Israeli airstrike. Their statement claimed that Khademi had "played a major role in Iran's intelligence and security apparatus over nearly five decades". Israel claimed that Yazdan Mir, a high-ranking commander of the IRGC Quds Force, had also been killed in the attacks.
On the same day, before Trump's deadline for targeting Iranian infrastructure, Israel carried out strikes on the South Pars Petrochemical facility in Asaluyeh, Iran. The Israeli Air Force claimed that "85% of Iran's petrochemical exports" had been taken offline by now.
At least 34 people, including six children, were killed in US-Israeli airstrikes across Iran, including against Sharif University of Technology and residential areas. Iranian vice president and reformist politician Mohammad Reza Aref, who is also an alumnus of the university, described the alleged use of a bunker-buster bomb as a "symbol of Trump's madness and ignorance".

On 7 April, The Rafi'-Nia synagogue in central Tehran was destroyed in an airstrike. Israel said that the building was destroyed due to collateral damage and that it was never meant to be the direct target of the airstrike. The same day, US forces began strikes on Kharg Island.  In response, Iran said its restraint in targeting oil infrastructure in the region would no longer apply. Trump posted to Truth Social that "a whole civilization will die tonight, never to be brought back again", causing international concern that Trump would use nuclear weapons. The Secretary General of Amnesty International said that Trump's statement "may constitute a threat to commit genocide". Multiple right-wing commentators and many Democrats condemned the post, and some called for him to be removed through the 25th Amendment. The White House denied considering using nuclear weapons. The White House later said that "only the president knows" what he would do on Iran.


=== Ceasefire (8 April – present) ===

On 7 April at 6:32 p.m. Eastern Time in the US (8 April, 1:32 a.m. in Israel and 8 April, 2:02 a.m. in Iran), President Trump announced on Truth Social that the US and Iran had reached an agreement based on the 10-point proposal mediated by Pakistani prime minister Shehbaz Sharif and Field Marshal Asim Munir, writing on Truth Social that Iran had sent the US a 10-point proposal, which the US believes is a "workable basis on which to negotiate". The US, Israel, and Iran agreed to a two-week ceasefire, under which Iran would also re-open the Strait of Hormuz; while the announcement occurred on 7 April in Washington, the acceptance and official implementation took effect on 8 April local time in the Middle East.
After the ceasefire announcement, Iran's Lavan Island oil refinery and Sirri Island crude export facilities were struck by an "enemy attack". No party claimed responsibility. In response, Iran continued to conduct missile and drone strikes on Gulf Arab states such as Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, and Bahrain.

Israel and the US assert that the ceasefire does not include Lebanon, contradicting the Pakistani mediators and Iran. Hezbollah said that it halted attacks on Israel and on Israeli soldiers in Lebanon. Despite the ceasefire, Israel launched "Operation Eternal Darkness", which Israel said included wide-ranging operation targeting all of Hezbollah's command and control centers in southern Lebanon, Beirut and the Beqaa Valley. These were the largest attacks since the start of the war, killing at least 357 people and injuring more than 1,200 others. In Beirut alone, at least 92 people were killed and at least 742 others were injured. In response, Iran threatened to attack Israel "if the aggressions against dear Lebanon are not brought to an immediate end", Iranian media later said that Iran paused Hormuz traffic over Israeli attacks in Lebanon. Hezbollah claimed responsibility for launching rockets towards northern Israel as a response to "cease-fire violations".
On 11 April, Trump said that American forces had started "clearing" the Strait of Hormuz. Iran claimed that an American ship on its way to the strait turned back after being warned. The Wall Street Journal reported that several US Navy destroyers entered the strait for the first time since the war began. A US official described it as an "operation that focused on freedom of navigation through international waters". The Iranian government reportedly threatened to attack the ships, accusing the US of a ceasefire violation. US Central Command said the ships are taking part in minesweeping. On the same day, the talks between the US and Iran—the highest-level discussions between the two countries since the 1979 Islamic Revolution—were held in Islamabad, Pakistan, lasting 21 hours, after which JD Vance announced that no agreement had been reached, stating that Iran had refused "to accept our terms." Afterwards, Trump said that he no longer cared about negotiations with Iran.
Trump declared that the US Navy would begin its own blockade of "all Ships trying to enter, or leave, the Strait of Hormuz" from 13 April. He also said the US Navy would stop any ships that paid tolls to Iran. However, United States Central Command clarified that the blockade would only be enforced on ships travelling to or from Iranian ports. The IRGC Navy said that any military vessel approaching the strait would be considered a ceasefire violation and would meet a "severe response." Trump threatened to strike any fast-attack ships of the IRGC Navy, similar to how the US carried out strikes against alleged drug traffickers during Operation Southern Spear.
According to a US analyst, Iran had 13 days of oil storage capacity, forcing it to shut down its oil fields thereafter and potentially damaging them. The same analyst estimated the loss of import and export capacity to US$435 million per day.
On 14 April, at least four Iranian-linked ships traveled through the Strait of Hormuz, despite the US blockade, according to public transponder data seen by BBC Verify. Those ships later stopped or turned around, after presumed interception by the US Navy, according to shipping data firms and the Sydney Morning Herald. Later that day, a US official said that eight oil tankers sailing to or from Iranian ports had been intercepted since the start of the blockade, adding that all tankers complied with orders. Tankers leaving Chabahar Port were contacted by a US destroyer, while Boeing P-8 Poseidon patrol aircraft were also used to intercept tankers. On 16 April, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Dan Caine, announced that 13 oil tankers had been intercepted by the US Navy in its blockade of Iran, with all ships complying with US directions and no boarding needed.
On 16 April, President Trump announced that Israel and Lebanon agreed to a ten-day truce.
As a result of the ceasefire in Lebanon, on 17 April, Iran announced that passage of commercial vessels through the Strait of Hormuz would be allowed during the truce. Despite this, President Trump said that the US blockade of ships traveling to or from Iranian ports would continue. As a result of the US decision to continue its blockade, Iran announced that it would re-impose restrictions on the Strait of Hormuz. Meanwhile, the US stated that its blockade had intercepted 23 ships traveling to or from Iranian ports.
On 19 April, Trump sent two negotiators to Pakistan, saying that planned talks were Iran's "last chance" to reach a deal. He threatened that Iran would be "blown up" if the negotiations fail, saying the US will target power plants and bridges.
The US Navy seized an Iranian cargo ship on 19 April, saying it was attempting to evade their blockade. Trump said that a US guided-missile destroyer fired at the ship, damaging its engine room. Iran called this seizure a breach of the ceasefire, which was due to end on 22 April. Iran retaliated by launching drones at US ships, although no damage was reported.
On 21 April, the Pentagon said that US soldiers boarded a sanctioned tanker in the Indo-Pacific region as part of an effort to disrupt ships providing support to Iran. Trump said the US military intercepted a "gift from China" to Iran. The Chinese foreign ministry stated that it "opposes any malicious association". The same day, Trump claimed the three Iranian nuclear sites are being watched by the US Space Force. JD Vance was expected to visit Islamabad for talks on 22 April, but the talks were paused by the US due to it not receiving a response from Iran.
A day before the ceasefire was due to end on 22 April, Trump said he will not extend the truce unless Iran agrees to a deal and said the US military was "raring to go", warning that bombing would resume soon. Hours before the ceasefire was due to end, Trump extended the truce, saying he did so at Pakistan's request, to allow time for an Iranian proposal to be submitted.
Hours after the ceasefire was extended, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard announced that it had seized two container ships and fired on one of them, causing "serious damage to the bridge". This was in response to the US seizing an Iranian ship three days earlier. On 22–23 April, three Iranian oil tankers were reportedly intercepted by the US in the eastern Indian Ocean and an Iranian-linked oil tanker was seized by the US. Later, Iranian state media reported that air defenses in Tehran engaged "small drones, micro-UAVs". On 23 April, Trump ordered the US Navy to destroy any Iranian boats laying mines in the Hormuz strait.
Despite the Iranian seizure of two cargo ships, Trump claimed on 23 April that the US fully controlled the Strait of Hormuz and said that he is the one keeping the strait closed, because opening it would allow Iran to "make $500 million a day". The Guardian described the situation as a "dual blockade", saying that while the US Navy was able to blockade Iranian ports, it had not been able to stop the Iranian blockade or open the strait to US allies. The same day, Trump announced that Israel and Lebanon agreed to a three-week extension of the ceasefire.
On 24 April, Iran said that it seized a ship suspected of collaborating with American military after the ship committed violations and ignored warnings. On 25 April, Trump said that he canceled the US negotiators' trip to Pakistan for negotiations with Iran.
On 1 May, Trump issued letters to congressional leaders according to the 1973 War Powers Resolution limiting conflicts to 60 days, that hostilities had ended so far, but conflict remains. On 3 May, Trump said that the US will help free up ships in the Strait of Hormuz beginning the next morning.
On 4 May, the Iranian military warned the US to keep out of Hormuz. The UAE and Oman said that they had intercepted Iranian ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and drones on the same day. Iranian state media claimed that the Iranian navy fired two missiles and hit an American naval frigate in the Strait of Hormuz. CENTCOM denied that the missiles struck the ship. U.S. Forces reportedly destroyed six or seven small Iranian boats in the Strait of Hormuz during a confrontation that threatened to break a month-long ceasefire. The boats were destroyed after they allegedly attempted to interfere with the transit of two (2) United States flagged commercial ships and two Navy destroyer ships (USS Truxton and USS Mason). The UAE said that an Iranian drone strike on an oil processing plant in Fujairah caused a fire, injuring three Indian citizens. On 5 May, the UAE said that it dealt with missile and drone attacks from Iran for the second consecutive day. Iran denied conducting attacks against the UAE in recent days.
On 6 May, President Trump announced a temporary halt in the US military's "Project Freedom" operation to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, citing "great progress" toward a potential agreement with Iran. Trump stated that the operation will be paused for "a short period" to determine whether a "complete and final agreement" with Iran could be achieved.
The US military said on the same day that it crippled an Iranian-flagged oil tanker in the Gulf of Oman after it allegedly attempted to breach the American blockade and cruise toward an Iranian port. NBC News reported that, according to two U.S. officials, Trump's sudden announcement of Project Freedom angered Saudi Arabian leaders who supported the diplomatic process in Pakistan. Saudi Arabia responded by not allowing the U.S. military to fly aircraft from Prince Sultan Air Base or fly through Saudi airspace, which forced the pause to Project Freedom.
On 7 May, the U.S. said that it struck Iranian military sites in Bandar Abbas and Qeshm Island in response to an earlier combined missile, drone, and small boat attack on U.S. destroyers crossing the Strait of Hormuz. Iran accused the US of violating the truce by targeting the Iranian oil tanker and another vessel. It also said the US air strikes hit civilian areas in Qeshm Island, and coastal areas in its vicinity in Bandar Khamir and Sirik. The military said it targeted American military vessels east of the Strait of Hormuz and south of the Chabahar Port in response to these incidents. The UAE claimed that its air defense systems shot down two Iranian ballistic missiles and three drones, moderately injuring three people. On the same day, the US said that it carried out strikes on two empty oil tankers allegedly attempting to reach Iran. Iranian officials said that six people went missing and several others were injured in US attacks which hit "Iranian fishing and cargo vessels” in the vicinity of Khasab.
On 8 May, Trump officials and advisors told The Atlantic that Trump was growing "bored" and frustrated with the war and Iran's refusal to comply to his demands despite his frequent exclaims of "victory" over it. According to the article, officials hoped that the naval blockade of Iran will force them to come to the negotiating table. Trump administration officials were also said to be unwilling to end the ceasefire, with Trump repeatedly issuing deadlines before resumed attacks only to repeatedly back down from them.
On 9 May, The Wall Street Journal citing people familiar with the matter including American officials reported that Israel constructed a secret military base in the western desert region in Iraq to support its air campaign targeting Iran and launched airstrikes against Iraqi soldiers who almost found it early in the war, killing one soldier.
On 10 May, UAE and Kuwait reported drone incursions that were neutralized, and a fire allegedly erupted on a vessel off Qatar following a drone attack. On that day, Trump said that Iranian response to an American proposal for ending the war is totally unacceptable.


== Strikes and casualties ==


=== Iran ===

The US and Israel eliminated many Iranian commanders and leaders on the war's first day due to a successful deception. IT caused Iran to believe that strikes were not imminent. Thus, groups of senior Iranian officials continued gathering in person. These gatherings were targeted in initial strikes. One part of the deception was information about a US F-22 deployment leaked to hide that preparations were more advanced at other bases. Calls between Trump and Netanyahu before the war were not publicised to diminish the possibility of an Iranian first strike.
IDF Spokesperson Brigadier General Effie Defrin stated that months of joint US and Israeli "strategic and operational deception" of satellite imagery led up to the war. This encompassed planes and other facilities. The night of the initial strike he and IDF Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Eyal Zamir took their official cars home from IDF Headquarters. They came back without them so that satellite imagery would show that their base did not appear full nor warplanes appear armed and ready. Three separate gatherings of Iranian regime officials were hit within half a minute of each other in the opening strike.


==== Assassination of Ali Khamenei ====

On 28 February 2026, Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader of Iran, was assassinated in an Israeli air attack. On 1 March, Iranian state media announced Khamenei's death. The IRGC-controlled Fars News Agency, announced that Khamenei's daughter, son-in-law, grandchild, and daughter-in-law Zahra Haddad-Adel had also been killed. The Iranian government declared 40 days of mourning.


==== Military and officials ====

The initial dead included Iranian defense minister Aziz Nasirzadeh,  and four top Ministry of Intelligence officials.
Additional senior officials included Salah Asadi, head of intelligence for Iran's emergency command, Mohammad Shirazi, head of Khamenei's military office, head of the Organization of Defensive Innovation and Research (SPND) Hossein Jabal Amelian, former SPND head Reza Mozaffari Nia, and chief of staff Abdolrahim Mousavi, among 40 official as reported by intelligence and military sources.
On 13 March, IDF estimated that between 3,000 and 4,000 Iranian soldiers and commanders had been killed.
On 17 March, Israel assassinated Ali Larijani, secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council. IRGC commander Mohammad Pakpour and Defence Council secretary Ali Shamkhani were reported dead in late March.
On 18 March, the Hengaw Organization for Human Rights estimated that 5,300+ members of the Iranian military had been killed.
On 31 March, Iran International reported that at least 4,700 security forces had been killed.
On 6 April, the head of IRGC intelligence, Major General Majid Khademi, was assassinated in a joint U.S.-Israeli airstrike.
As of 7 April, Human Rights Activists in Iran (HRANA), a US-based non-governmental organization, reported 3,636 documented war deaths, including 1,701 civilians, 1,221 military personnel, and 714 unclassified. According to HRANA, "[i]t is believed that military casualties are significantly higher than the figures reported in [its] reports" as confirmations depend largely on government data. Its count largely reflects reports of military personnel present in urban areas.


==== Civilians ====

On the first day of the war, the Shajareh Tayyebeh girl's elementary school in Minab was hit by an American attack, according to Iran. The school was located near the Sayyid al-Shuhada military complex, of which it had once been a part. While the number killed was not independently confirmed, Iranian state media reported that more than 175 people, mostly children, were killed while 95 were wounded. Video showed a Tomahawk missile hitting a building adjacent to the school; preliminary findings from an American military investigation indicated that the strike resulted from  outdated targeting data.

At least 20 civilians, mostly families who gathered after breaking their fast at Ramadan, were killed in Tehran's Niloofar Square on 1 or 2 March, according to Iranian-state media. On 3 March, the Iranian Red Crescent Society said that over 600 civilians had been killed while HRANA reported 1,097 civilian deaths. On 7 March, the Red Crescent reported that over 6,668 civilian "units" had been targeted by US-Israeli strikes, including 5,535 residential units, 1,041 commercial units, 14 medical centers, 65 schools, and 13 centers affiliated with the Red Crescent. The Middle East Eye, an anti-Israel news outlet, reported that the US used double tap airstrikes, although the US denies this. As of 23 March, HRANA estimated that at least 15% of the casualties were under age 18.
An Israeli airstrike on 9 March in Resalat neighbourhood of Tehran destroyed a Basij-affiliated building as well as three residential buildings, killing 40 to 50. According to a BBC analysis, Israel used Mark 82 bombs in the attack.
As of 27 March, Iran has reported damage to at least 120 historical sites.
The deadly attack on residential buildings and a sports hall in the town of Lamerd killed 21 including 4 children and injured 100.


==== Institutions ====
The initial attack targeted Leadership House. On 2 March, video footage released by Iran International showed the destroyed IRGC Malek-Ashtar building in Tehran following a joint US-Israel missile strike. On 3 March, the complex of Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB), the state broadcaster's headquarters, was hit in an Israeli air operation.
Iranian state-linked media indicated that Iran's parliament building was targeted.  On 3 March, Israeli forces bombed the Assembly of Experts office building in Qom.


==== Infrastructure ====
By 5 March, the World Health Organization had identified 13 Iranian health sites hit, as well as one in Lebanon. The Iranian Foreign Minister said that the US had struck a desalination plant on Qeshm Island, disrupting water supply to 30 villages, but both the US and Israel denied an attack. The Russian consulate in Isfahan was damaged.


=== United States ===
Analysis of satellite images by the Washington Post revealed damages to at least 228 structures or pieces of equipment at U.S. bases across the Persian Gulf, far more than the Trump administration has admitted to.
On 1 March, six US soldiers were killed amid more than 30 injured in an Iranian drone attack near Camp Arifjan in Port Shuaiba, Kuwait. Those killed were soldiers of the United States Army Reserve assigned to the 103rd Expeditionary Sustainment Command, headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa. On 4 March, US Marine Corps Lance Corporal Kevin Melendez died in Saudi Arabia in a non-hostile incident. On 8 March, CENTCOM reported that a National Guard soldier died during a medical emergency. Sgt. Benjamin N. Pennington, a soldier of the 1st Space Brigade wounded in an attack against Prince Sultan Air Base in Saudi Arabia on 1 March, died from his injuries on 9 March.
Six American airmen were killed on 12 March when their KC-135 aerial refueling aircraft crashed in western Iraq. CENTCOM said that the crash was not the result of hostile action, but had resulted during an incident involving another US aircraft. By 13 March, the US military publicly announced that about 140 American servicemen had been injured. A 27 March attack on Prince Sultan Air Base damaged "multiple" refueling aircraft and destroyed a Boeing E-3 Sentry, as well as wounding at least 15 US soldiers.
The USS Gerald R. Ford, the largest aircraft carrier in theatre, was damaged by a fire that broke out 12 March. The US Navy said the fire had injured multiple sailors, started in a laundry area and was not combat-related. The carrier had been dealing with other mechanical issues, including a malfunctioning sewage treatment system, since before it arrived in the Middle East. According to multiple reports on 17–18 March, Gerald R. Ford paused launching airstrikes and sailed toward the Crete Naval Base for repairs.
Many US military bases near Iran were rendered "all but uninhabitable" due to Iranian strikes. Within the war's first two weeks, Iran's attacks caused $800 million in damage to bases. Affected bases include Al-Sader and Al-Ruwais in the UAE, the naval base in Bahrain, Ali Al-Salem in Kuwait, Al-Udeid in Qatar, and Prince Sultan in Saudi Arabia. According to unnamed officials, the damage  degraded the US's military ability in the war. Many US servicemembers relocated to "hotels and office spaces", which raised concerns of the US using civilians as human shields. An attack on a hotel in Bahrain injured two Pentagon employees.


=== Israel ===

The first attack struck a residential building, leaving one Israeli injured. Magen David Adom reported that Iran's initial attacks had left 89 injured, with three directly wounded and the rest indirectly, most of them civilians. On 28 February, a direct hit in Tel Aviv killed a woman and injured 22 others, one seriously. On 1 March, a strike hit a synagogue and residential buildings in Beit Shemesh, killing nine and injuring 49 others. On 9 March, two workers were killed in Yehud, outside of Tel Aviv, after they were struck by submunitions from an Iranian missile equipped with a cluster bomb warhead.
On 17 March, a cluster munition from an Iranian missile hit an apartment building in Ramat Gan and killed two residents. A statement from the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps called the barrage "revenge for the blood of martyr Dr. Ali Larijani and his companions", who had been killed the day before. According to CNN, the use of cluster munitions violates international law. N.R. Jenzen-Jones of Armament Research Services stated that this type of warhead is being used "primarily to sow terror amongst a civilian population".
The executive director of the Arms Control Association called the Iranian use of cluster munitions at residential sections of Israel during the war as deliberate, saying that "Iran appears to be launching them into relatively populated areas, probably with the goal of producing potential civilian harm." Neither Iran nor Israel is party to the Convention on Cluster Munitions, and both Israel and Iran are among 17 countries that either produce cluster munitions, or reserve the right to do so.
On 4 April, an Iranian missile strike hit in the vicinity of the IDF's Kirya headquarters in Tel Aviv.


=== Lebanon ===

More than 2,000 people were killed and over 4,000 were wounded by Israeli strikes in Lebanon, and Lebanon states more than one million people, 1/6th of the population, were displaced. During the war, six United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon peacekeepers were killed and 11 were injured.


=== Iraq ===

In Iraq, two members of the Iran-backed Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) were killed and three injured in a US-Israeli attack on 28 February. A later report estimated three dead. On 1 and 2 March, the United States and Israel conducted several attacks on Iranian-backed Iraqi militias to degrade their military capabilities.


=== Iranian attacks on US-allied Arab countries ===

In addition to Israel, Iran launched strikes against multiple US-allied Arab countries. Iranian strikes against Bahrain killed three. Strikes against Kuwait killed four soldiers and four civilians. Strikes against Oman killed three. Strikes against Saudi Arabia killed two. Strikes against the United Arab Emirates killed two soldiers and six civilians.
Iran also struck Qatar, Azerbaijan, and the Akrotiri and Dhekelia British Overseas Territory on Cyprus.
The Iranian attacks affected military infrastructure from NATO countries in the region, "including an Italian installation in Iraq and Kuwait, and a French naval facility in the United Arab Emirates".


=== Casualties by citizenship ===


=== Attacks by missiles and drones/UAVs ===


== Direct impacts ==


=== Iran ===


==== Leadership ====

The death of Ali Khamenei triggered an election for a new supreme leader. Under the terms of Iran's constitution, an Interim Leadership Council was established on 1 March to exercise the functions of Iran's head of state until a new supreme leader is elected.
Mojtaba Khamenei was elected on 8 March 2026 to replace his father as supreme leader, and the IRGC, as well as Iran's top leaders, including Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Ali Larijani, and Masoud Pezeshkian, pledged their allegiance to him.
In late March, the NYT described Iran's leadership as paralyzed with severely disrupted decision-making process. It also reported that the damage to communications infrastructure caused paranoia and internal power struggles.


==== Civilian life ====

According to UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk, the "reckless" war is disproportionately impacting civilians in the Middle East and beyond.
138,000 civilian sites in Iran were damaged during the conflict, with estimated time of reconstruction being 2 to 5 years.
As the US and Israel executed joint strikes targeting Iranian military and institutional targets, Iran's capital reportedly became a ghost town, as civilians feared going outside or to their daily jobs. Reports have emerged that prisoners in Evin Prison have been receiving limited bread and water since the onset of the war. After the strikes, schools were ordered closed while banks and government offices remained in operation at reduced capacity. Local media reported that subway and bus services would remain operational.
Amid the renewed "near total" internet blackout in Iran, NetBlocks reported that internet connectivity in Iran dropped to 4% of ordinary levels. While the internet blackout has exceeded 240 hours, making it the second longest ever, the government started handing out "white sim cards", which bypass filters, to government supporters, in order to allow them to promote its messaging. As news of Khamenei's death broke, security forces were deployed to prevent an uprising, with footage showing them opening fire on celebrants in the streets and shooting at people chanting behind the windows of their homes.
During the first two weeks of March 2026, over 70,000 Afghan refugees returned to Afghanistan, frequently under forced circumstances, exacerbating the country's severe humanitarian crisis. Arafat Jamal, the UNHCR Representative in Afghanistan, noted that they faced limited options amid the military confrontations between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
According to The Guardian, the war has overshadowed the executions of political prisoners in Iran, including those involved in the mass protests of January 2026, allowing Iran to continue carrying out death sentences and other severe punishments with little international scrutiny.


==== Military ====
On 26 March, it was reported that children as young as 12 years of age may join Iran's war support, leading to concerns of the use of child soldiers. Days later, rights groups stated an 11-year-old was killed while on duty at a Tehran checkpoint.
On 29 March, footage showed Iraq's Popular Mobilization Forces deployed in Iran.


==== Kurdish–Iranian crisis ====

According to The Wall Street Journal, Trump had been open to supporting armed militias, particularly Kurds in Iran that have been in armed conflict with Tehran for decades and have historically been a regional ally of the United States. However, Trump later said he had ruled out sending the Kurds to Iran.


==== Cultural heritage sites ====

Multiple historic and cultural sites, including UNESCO World Heritage Sites, were damaged during the war. The most affected was Chehel Sotoun and its rich ayeneh-kari. On 2 March, a strike on Arg Square damaged nearby Golestan Palace, prompting UNESCO to issue a statement of concern. On 5 March, the Azadi Sport Complex was bombed. An 8 March strike on Falak-ol-Aflak, which was marked with a blue shield emblem, damaged several sections of the site. Strikes on Isfahan on 9 March damaged Naqsh-e Jahan Square, Chehel Sotoun, Ali Qapu, the Shah Mosque, Jameh Mosque, and Teymouri Hall. On 11 March, UNESCO urged protection for Iran's heritage sites and World Heritage Sites that have been damaged or are under high risk due to the war, alongside other historic sites in Israel, Lebanon, and across the Middle East.


=== Israel ===
Israel declared a nationwide state of emergency, saying that the strikes on Iran were the largest that it had ever launched. Israeli schools and workspaces were closed and public gatherings were canceled.
In the 40 days from the start of the war through the 8 April ceasefire, there were a total of 650 missile attacks from Iran to Israel, the majority of which carried cluster munitions. About 16 of the missiles that made it past Israeli missile defenses carried conventional warheads, while 50 had cluster munitions. The attacks killed a total of 24 people, all of them civilians, and resulted in more than 7,000 injuries. Of the 24 civilians killed, 14 were struck by warheads with conventional explosive warheads and 10 were victims of cluster submunitions; two of the deaths were inside a sheltered space, with the other fatalities being people in unprotected areas.


=== Palestine ===

The Israeli Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories closed multiple aid crossings in the Gaza Strip, specifically interrupting free circulation on the Egypt–Gaza border. Israeli forces suspended United Nations humanitarian movements and postponed planned rotations of international humanitarian staff, including medical evacuations and the return of people into Gaza, which the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs condemned.
Israeli settler violence against Palestinians in occupied West Bank has increased; settlers have taken advantage of curbs on movement imposed during the renewed Israeli state of emergency. The renewed blocking of West Bank roads in the context of the 2026 Lebanon war has delayed medics from assisting injured Palestinians. The EU stated on 10 March that the Israeli actions were unacceptable and urged the Israeli authorities to make immediate efforts to prevent the violence against Palestinian civilians under international law, warning that "impunity for such acts risks provoking further violence".


=== Lebanon ===


=== Gulf Arab states ===
The Arab states of the Persian Gulf started a campaign of prosecution against civilians and foreign citizens that shared or reposted rumours from unverified sources about the Iranian attacks, with the stated main goal to curb misinformation that could harm public order. Bahrain's Cyber Crime Directorate also started a campaign of arresting civilians in the country, which has a large Shiite minority, who allegedly expressed "their support for the Iranian shelling targeting the Kingdom of Bahrain", describing such activities as treason and as promotion of hostile acts against the state. Trump said "Even if we knew Gulf countries would be hit, big deal we did what we have to do".


== Economic impacts ==

The war had global economic consequences: oil and gas prices surged, aviation and tourism were disrupted, and financial markets shuddered. International Energy Agency (IEA) head Fatih Birol described the situation as the "greatest global energy security challenge in history".


=== Energy ===

Oil and natural gas prices rose in direct response to Iranian threats to attack tankers and other ships and to Iranian strikes on oil facilities in Gulf producing countries. 20% of global oil and gas production normally transit the Strait of Hormuz. As the war continued, oil and gas prices ebbed and flowed as markets attempted to assess the likelihood of an end to the conflict. Prices ranged from below $70 before the war to as high as $139 on 7 March. Gas prices also rose. Following the start of the war, multiple oil producers such as Shell, TotalEnergies, Britain's BP and others announced increased profits in their first quarter.
Toward the end of March significant shortages of domestic petroleum products emerged in southeast Asia as reserves ran out.

Stock markets initially fell, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling over 400 points (one percent) on 2 March alone, although by mid-April had recovered and reached record highs.
The UN World Food Programme and various economic analysts warned that the war is driving significant, long-term increases in global food prices.


=== Commodities ===
Disruption in the supply of essential fertilizers due to the closure of the Strait threatened food production in many countries. The Fertilizer Institute stated that nearly 50% of global urea and sulfur exports annually transited through the Strait of Hormuz, made worse by the natural gas shortage, which is a key feedstock for nitrogen fertilizers.


=== Air travel ===

Iran's airspace emptied of civilian aircraft during the conflict, as Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Qatar, Syria and the UAE closed their respective airspaces. Some carriers suspended service to the Middle East.
The disruption in global oil supply, caused by the closure of the Strait of Hormuz during the conflict, led to higher jet fuel prices, which increased operating costs for airlines and pushed up airfares on both domestic and international routes. Airlines responded by raising ticket prices and adjusting some flight schedules to cope with higher fuel costs. This impact was also visible in Europe, where continued disruptions in energy supply routes contributed to higher fuel prices and additional pressure on airlines. As a result, some carriers reduced capacity or cut flights, while others passed increased costs directly on to passengers.
Spirit Airlines, an American low-cost airline, ceased operations on 2 May 2026, after increased fuel costs from the war exacerbated its existing financial difficulties.


=== Strait of Hormuz ===


=== Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb ===

Houthi-controlled Yemen threatened shipping in the Gulf of Aden and Red Sea. Its threats had been suspended since 10 October 2025. March threats by Houthi leader Abdul-Malik al-Houthi had not stopped Red Sea traffic as of mid-April, although traffic remained under historic levels after crashing in 2024 as a result of Houthi attacks. On 15 March, the Associated Press reported that the weapons stockpile of the Houthis was running low from repeated attacks on Israel, while Iran had not been able to resupply them, because of the war.


=== Internet infrastructure ===

Three Amazon Web Services data centers in the United Arab Emirates were struck and damaged as a result of drone strikes, leading to outages of web infrastructure within the Middle East, causing "sparks and fire" as well as "major structural damage" for 2 of the centers, with internal water levels reaching up to 4 cm, worsened by the failure of cooling and air systems. Fundamental web infrastructure including S3 storage, EC2 compute and DynamoDB databases suffered complete outages in early March. Iran shut down Internet access for its people throughout the war. Users who took the potentially fatal risk of smuggling Starlink terminals into the country retained some access.


=== Military costs ===
According to a new report by the Center for International Policy, the US spent nearly $72 billion on the war ($1.2 billion per day on average). The figure is nearly three times the amount of the Pentagon’s official estimate. US military costs were estimated at $25–35 billion as of early April. Israeli costs were estimated at $11 billion. Costs to the Iranian economy were estimated at $40–50 billion, around 10% of GDP. The monetary costs of Iranian attacks were much lower than the costs of neutralizing them: PATRIOT and THAAD interceptors are $4 million and $12 million, respectively, as opposed to $50,000 for a Shahed drone.


== Reactions ==


=== Iran ===


==== Media coverage ====


===== Background =====
Before hostilities erupted, media attention on US-Iran tensions increased in early 2026, following failed nuclear talks and domestic unrest in Iran. Iranian state media, such as the IRNA, portrayed these developments as provocations.


===== Disinformation and propaganda =====

Iranian state-controlled outlets have been described as employing propaganda techniques, including the use of AI-generated videos (such as those produced by Explosive Media) and inflated casualty figures. Trump has accused Iran of using artificial intelligence as a "disinformation weapon." Iranian media broadcast manipulated images of alleged victories, prompting fact-checking from organizations like NewsGuard. The Iranian government responded to the Trump administration's use of video game clips, cartoon characters, and blockbuster movie scenes for Iran messaging with an AI-generated propaganda video mimicking Lego animation, produced by the Revayat-e-Fath Institute and redistributed on various government-run outlets, including redistribution by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The video declares itself in remembrance of the Minab school attack and showcases Iran attacking various of its neighbours and American-Israeli outposts.
Rumors that Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu had been killed in Iranian attacks were circulating widely on social media and were amplified by Iranian state-controlled outlets. Users claimed that footage of Netanyahu speaking at a press conference on 13 March 2026 was AI-generated, citing alleged anomalies such as a "sixth finger."


===== Impact =====
Coverage of the war strained journalistic resources, with reports of targeted attacks on media infrastructure.


=== Israel ===


==== Media coverage ====


===== Background =====
Before hostilities erupted, media attention on US-Iran tensions increased in early 2026, following failed nuclear talks and reports of Iranian domestic unrest. Outlets such as CNN and The New York Times detailed US military buildups in the region, speculating about possible attacks. Israeli broadcasters focused on the threats posed by Iranian proxies such as Hezbollah.


===== Disinformation and propaganda =====
Rumors that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had been killed in Iranian attacks were circulating widely on social media and were amplified by Iranian state-controlled outlets. Netanyahu responded by posting several videos, including one filmed in a Jerusalem cafe in which he sarcastically declared that he was "dying for coffee" while holding up a cappuccino and holding up his hands to show that he had five fingers. The cafe video itself quickly became the subject of fresh rumors, with some social media users and commentators claiming that it too was AI-generated or a deepfake. The cafe later released images as evidence that Netanyahu had visited.


=== United States ===


==== Media coverage ====


===== Background =====
Before hostilities erupted, media attention on US-Iran tensions increased in early 2026, following failed nuclear talks and reports of Iranian domestic unrest. Outlets such as CNN and The New York Times detailed US military buildups in the region, speculating about possible attacks.
As the airstrikes began, initial reporting relied heavily on satellite imagery and official briefings. The Pentagon's announcements of the destruction of Iranian assets were widely echoed, but independent verification proved difficult due to Tehran's communications restrictions.


===== Disinformation and propaganda =====
The White House faced backlash over a video that mixed real war footage with video game clips. Critics said such efforts distorted public understanding. The Trump administration's use of copyrighted video game clips, cartoon characters, and blockbuster movie scenes for Iran messaging risked turning war into entertainment and a spectacle.
The White House circulates videos fusing real airstrike footages with visuals from video games and action movies, "transforming acts of destruction into a spectacle of national triumph", keeping the audience detached from the human suffering it produces. A video from the White House drew widespread criticism and bewilderment. Another clip used Kesha's song "Blow" under the footage of an airstrike, which prompted the singer to protest against the "perverts". Blase Cupich, an American Catholic Cardinal who is close with Pope Leo XIV, referred to a video released by the White House of attacks on Iran mixed with Hollywood film clips as "horrifying" and "sickening".


===== United States media and government =====
On 14 March 2026, Federal Communications Commission Chairman Brendan Carr, a Trump appointee, warned broadcasters that those who "perpetrate fake news and distort the news" must "take the right course" or risk losing their licenses at renewal. Carr said broadcasters "must act in the public interest, and if they don't, they will lose their licenses," citing the public's low trust in legacy media and past election coverage problems. Trump expressed that he was "enthusiastic" about Carr's stance.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth also criticized the coverage during a news conference, taking issue with CNN's reporting and suggesting emphasizing Iranian frustration rather than adding to the headlines. Democratic lawmakers condemned the FCC's remarks as unconstitutional censorship, with many calling it "oppressive" and a violation of the First Amendment.


===== Impact =====
Coverage of the war influenced public opinion, with the US public showing mixed support amid economic concerns.


===== Criticism =====
Analysts accused Western media of failing to challenge the official narrative, with Mondoweiss highlighting the flattering language that downplayed civilian casualties. Al Jazeera noted the overrepresentation of voices from the pro-war Iranian diaspora. Pre-war coverage was also marred by inadequate public warnings.


=== International ===


==== Media coverage ====
Initial coverage in Arab media, including Al Jazeera, emphasized the risks of regional spread, citing attacks on Gulf states. Al Jazeera noted the overrepresentation of voices from the pro-war Iranian diaspora in Western media. News media and traders have repeatedly applied the pejorative abbreviation "Trump Always Chickens Out" (TACO), previously used first for the Liberation Day tariffs, for Trump's repeated refusals to enforce his "red line" threats against Iran. Another pejorative abbreviation called "Not A Chance Hormuz Opens" (NACHO) was devised in reference to Trump's inability to quickly reopen the strait.


== Diplomatic efforts ==


== Analysis ==


== See also ==

Outline of the 2026 Iran war
Censorship during the 2026 Iran war
List of wars involving Iran


=== Related events ===
American expansionism under Donald Trump
1979 oil crisis
March–May 2025 United States attacks in Yemen
2026 United States intervention in Venezuela
Greenland crisis
2026 Cuban crisis
2026 Holy See–United States rift


=== Related persons ===
List of U.S. service members killed during the 2026 Iran war
Brian McGinnis
Ebrahim Zolfaghari
Jiang Xueqin
Tomer White Glasses


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

"What we know about the US-Israeli attack on Iran and Tehran's retaliation". CNN. 28 February 2026. Retrieved 28 February 2026.
U.S. and Israeli Strikes on Iran, C-SPAN
Tracking of traffic in the Strait of Hormuz