Andes virus (ANDV) is a cause of hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) in Chile and Argentina. It is spread mainly by the long-tailed pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys longicaudatus). In its natural reservoir, ANDV causes an asymptomatic, persistent infection and is spread through excretions, fighting, and grooming. Humans can become infected by breathing in aerosols that contain rodent saliva, urine, or feces, as well as through bites and scratches. In humans, infection can lead to HPS, an illness characterized by an early phase of mild and moderate symptoms such as fever, headache, and fatigue, followed by sudden respiratory failure. The case fatality rate is about 40%.
The genome of ANDV is about 12.1 kilobases (kb) in length and segmented into three negative-sense, single-stranded RNA (−ssRNA) strands. The small strand encodes the viral nucleoprotein, the medium strand encodes the viral spike protein, which attaches to cell receptors for entry into cells, and the long strand encodes the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), which replicates and transcribes the genome. Genome segments are encased in nucleoproteins to form ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes that are surrounded by a viral envelope that contains spikes emanating from its surface.
Andes virus replicates first by binding to the surface of cells with its envelope spikes. Virus particles, called virions, are then taken into the cell by endosomes, where a drop in pH causes the viral envelope to fuse with the endosome, which releases viral RNA into the host cell. RdRp then transcribes the genome for translation by host cell ribosomes and produces copies of the genome for progeny viruses. New virions are assembled near the cell membrane, where virions bud from the cell membrane and use it to obtain their viral envelope and leave the cell.
Andes virus was first identified in 1995 in Argentina and Chile, with a few hundred cases diagnosed through the end of 2025. The primary reservoir is the long-tailed pygmy rice rat, though the virus is also found in other species such as the long-haired grass mouse (Abrothrix longipilis). Andes virus is the only hantavirus known to spread between people, a route first identified in 1996. While this transmission is recognized by public health agencies based on epidemiological clustering, a 2022 review noted it relies on observational data that does not definitively exclude simultaneous environmental exposure to infected rodents.


== Genome ==
The genome of ANDV is about 12.1 thousand nucleotides in length and segmented into three negative-sense, single-stranded RNA (-ssRNA) segments. The segments form into circles via non-covalent bonding of the ends of the genome. The small segment, about 1.87 kilobases (kb) in length, encodes the viral nucleoprotein and a non-structural protein that inhibits interferon production. The medium segment, about 3.67 kb in length, encodes a glycoprotein precursor that is cleaved into the two spike proteins Gn and Gc during virion assembly. The large segment, about 6.56 kb in length, encodes an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), which is responsible for transcribing and replicating the genome. The ends of each segment contain untranslated terminal regions (UTRs) that are involved in the replication and transcription of the genome.


== Structure ==
Virions are mostly spherical or pleomorphic in shape and range from 80 to 160 nm in diameter. They contain a lipid envelope covered in spike proteins made of the two viral glycoproteins, Gn and Gc. The spike proteins extend about 10 nm out from the surface and are tetrameric, consisting of four copies each of Gn and Gc with helical symmetry, in which Gn forms the stalk of the spike and Gc the head. Spikes are arranged on the surface in a lattice pattern. Inside the envelope are the three genome segments, which are encased in nucleoproteins to form a ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex. Attached to each RNP complex is a copy of RdRp.


== Life cycle ==
Andes virus primarily infects endothelial cells and macrophages. It enters cells by using β3-integrins as receptors. Virions are taken into a cell via an endosome. Once pH is lowered, the viral envelope fuses with the endosome, which releases viral RNA into the host cell's cytoplasm. The small segment is transcribed by RdRp first, then the medium segment, and lastly the large segment. Once the genome has been transcribed, RdRp snatches caps from host messenger RNA (mRNA) to create viral mRNA that is primed for translation by host ribosomes to produce viral proteins.
For replication of the genome, a complementary positive-sense strand is produced by RdRp. Copies of the genome are made from this complementery strand. Progeny RNA strands are then encapsidated by nucleoproteins. During replication, the glycoprotein is cleaved in the endoplasmic reticulum by the host signal peptidase during translation. This produces Gn at the N-terminus and Gc at the C-terminus of the protein. Spike proteins are expressed on the surface of the cell membrane. Viral RNPs are transmitted to the cell membrane where they bud from the surface, thereby obtaining their envelope as the new progeny virions leave the cell.


== Evolution ==
The most common way that hantaviruses evolve is through mutations of individual nucleotides being inserted, deleted, or substituted. Because ANDV has a segmented genome, it is possible for recombination and reassortment of segments to occur, whereby segments from different lineages mix in a single host cell and produce hybrid progeny.


== Ecology ==

Andes virus is carried mainly by the long-tailed pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys longicaudatus), a common species in rural Argentina and Chile. Apart from the long-tailed pygmy rice rat, ANDV is relatively common in the long-haired grass mouse. Seroprevalence of ANDV in its hosts is found throughout South America, but is highest in Patagonia. Transmission of ANDV between rodents appears to be primarily through saliva and aerosols that contain saliva. In its rodent hosts, it causes a persistent, asymptomatic infection. Transmission to humans occurs mainly through the inhalation of aerosols that contain mouse salivas, urine, or feces. Transmission can also occur through consumption of contaminated food, bites, and scratches.
Andes virus is the only hantavirus known to be transmitted from person to person. Human-to-human transmission was first identified during a 1996 outbreak in southern Argentina, and sustained generational transmission was subsequently documented during the 2018–2019 Epuyén outbreak. The virus transmits through direct physical contact, saliva, airborne droplets, breastmilk, from mother to child across the placenta, and through the digestive tract. This transmission primarily occurs among family members or during prolonged close contact with an infected individual in the prodromal phase of the disease. While major public health organizations, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, recognize this transmission mechanism based on epidemiological clustering and viral genome sequencing, a 2022 systematic review concluded that the existing observational outbreak studies lack the formal environmental control groups required to definitively eliminate the possibility of simultaneous environmental rodent exposure. 
Blooming of Chusquea (cf. bamboo blossom) has been hypothesized to be a predictive factor in the spread of Andes virus as it has been linked to rodent activity.


== Disease ==
Andes virus infection usually causes hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS), also called hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS). Symptoms occur within 1–8 weeks after exposure to the virus and come in three phases: prodromal, cardiopulmonary, and recovery. Prodromal (early) symptoms last for a few days and include fever, muscle pain, headache, coughing, nausea, vomiting, chills, and dizziness. The cardiopulmonary phase lasts for several days and is characterized by fluid buildup in the lungs, low oxygen levels in the blood, elevated or irregular heart rate, low blood pressure, cardiogenic shock, and respiratory failure. The case fatality rate from ANDV infection is about 40%.
Andes virus typically causes disease in Argentina and Chile. In Chile the first HPS case was detected in 1995 and the first known outbreak was noted in 1997 in Coyhaique. Revision of older cases show that the first known case in may actually have occurred in 1993. In Argentina, 1,350 cases of HPS have occurred up to 2016 (from various hantaviruses). It is estimated that about 16% of these cases were due to ANDV. At least another 34 cases of ANDV occurred in late 2018 and early 2019 in Argentina.
Andes virus infection is diagnosed based on symptoms and testing for hantavirus nucleic acid, proteins, or hantavirus-specific antibodies. Treatment is supportive in nature and includes supplementing oxygen during the cardiopulmonary phase. No vaccine exists, so the main way to prevent infection is to avoid or minimize contact with rodents. Repeated infections of hantaviruses have not been observed, so recovering from infection may grant immunity.


== Classification ==
Andes virus is classified into the species Orthohantavirus andesense in the genus Orthohantavirus, which is in the family Hantaviridae, the family that all hantaviruses belong to. Other member viruses of Orthohantavirus andesense include the Castelo dos Sonhos virus, Lechiguanas virus, and Orán virus. The Chile-9717869 isolate of ANDV is the exemplar virus of the species. This taxonomy is shown hereafter:

Family: Hantaviridae
Genus: Orthohantavirus
Species: Orthohantavirus andesense
Andes virus
Castelo dos Sonhos virus
Lechiguanas virus
Orán virus


== History ==
Andes virus was first discovered in Argentina in 1995, and is named after the Andes mountain range. Cases were first reported in Chile that same year. Human-to-human transmission was first reported in an outbreak in 1996 in El Bolsón, Argentina. Since then, sporadic outbreaks with reported person-to-person transmission have occurred. Andes virus was accepted as a species by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses in 1999 and has undergone a series of changes to its species name, first changing to Andes hantavirus, then Andes orthohantavirus, and most recently to the current Orthohantavirus andesense. 


=== 2026 cruise ===


==== Aftermath ====
On 6 May 2026, the ship's MD, a Dutch man, was found to have Andes virus.
On 5 May, a Swiss man received a positive test in regard to the Andes virus. He had left the ship earlier, on April 22.
"Andes [... virus] was confirmed through sequencing", in the case of a British man that had been on the ship, according to a media outlet; furthermore, [minutes or days earlier, on 2 May 2026], "Hantavirus was confirmed".
A German woman died on the ship on 2 May; a post-mortem test was taken; Andes virus were confirmed.
In regard to research, "the full genome [... of one of the cases of ANDV] was shared", according to media (10 May 2026); furthermore, "the full genome of [... another case of ANDV has been] generated, and [... handed over] to Virological and Pathoplexus [and] is ... pending".


===== Evacuation (10—11 May) =====
On 11 May 2026, the "last six passengers and some crew members" left the ship, according to a media outlet.
Earlier (10 May 2026), all 146 (both) passengers and crew onboard MV Hondius, were being re-tested for [viruses including] Andes virus; The ship anchored within sight of the shore; the passengers [were] taken in small boats, to a pier near the airport on Tenerife, Canary Islands. Passengers have been told to only carry a "small bag with essential items" as their luggage, a plastic bag. 30 crew members are expected to sail the ship, and a medical team, towards the Netherlands (no earlier than 11 May). 
The ship's passengers and some crew members are being transported away from the Canary Islands, as of 10 May 2026 and the next day:

to the United States: The flight has departed. A PCR test showed genetic material from ANDV in one person. He will be taken to the Nebraska Biocontainment Unit. Other passengers will be taken for assessment and monitoring.
to Canada: The flight has departed.
to Ireland: 2 passengers have departed, and will be quarantined on arrival.
to the Netherlands: The first flight thereto, had people from several countries: 8 Dutch nationals, and people from Germany (4), and from "India (2), , Argentina (1), Belgium (2), Greece (1), Portugal (1), Ukraine (1), Guatemala (1), Philippines (4) and Montenegro (1)". They will all "quarantine for around six weeks", according to Gulf News.
to UK: 20 passengers were flown there, and will isolate at a hospital for [3 days or] 72 hours. Thereafter they "will not be allowed to take public transport to their home", according to BBC.
to France: 5 passengers were flown there. Upon arrival they "were immediately placed in ... isolation", according to the French PM.
to Turkey: 3 people have started their flight.
14 Spanish nationals arrived (10 May) at a military airport outside Madrid, Spain; they are not de facto free to leave as they please (as of May).


===== Research =====
There is research being done on "Case 1", in regard to one of the passengers; there are other case numbers for some of the other passengers.


===== Virus-transmission ideas that have been ruled out, to some degree =====
There has been no sign on the ship, in regard to the possibility of a rat or mouse or droppings from such.


== Phylogenetics ==
Clades include 

ANDV South (ANDV Sout), and
ANDV (C-I)
Lineages that have been proposed, include

ANDV Cent BsAs, or "Central Buenos Aires" lineage
ANDV Cent Plata, or "Central Plata" lineage
ANDV Cent Lec; A media outlet said in 2023, that proposed  lineages include "Central Lechiguanas, North, and South".


=== Strains ===
Several strains of Andes virus have been discovered, including

"Hu-3337", or ANDV/Switzerland/Hu-3337/2026
the ARG-Epuyén strain
Andes/ARG
CH-7913
CH-9717869 or Chile-9717869
Chile R123
AH-1
CHI-Hu13724


== See also ==
Scrub typhus, a disease first reported in southernmost Chile in 2020
Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome
Sin Nombre virus (the other common hantavirus species)
MV Hondius hantavirus outbreak


== References ==


== External links ==

CDC's Hantavirus Technical Information Index page
Viralzone: Orthohantavirus