The 2026 Backlash, also promoted as Backlash: Tampa, was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) and livestreaming event produced by WWE. It was the 21st Backlash event and took place on Saturday, May 9, 2026, at the Benchmark International Arena in Tampa, Florida. It was held for wrestlers from the promotion's Raw and SmackDown brand divisions. The concept of the event was based around the backlash from WrestleMania 42. This was the first Backlash to livestream on the ESPN streaming service in the United States, and also the first to air live on an ESPN linear channel, as the first hour was simulcast on ESPN2.
Five matches were contested at the event. In the main event, Roman Reigns defeated Jacob Fatu to retain the Raw's World Heavyweight Championship. In other prominent matches, Iyo Sky defeated Asuka, Trick Williams defeated Sami Zayn to retain the SmackDown's WWE United States Championship, and in the opening bout, Bron Breakker defeated Seth Rollins.


== Production ==


=== Background ===

Backlash is a recurring professional wrestling event that was established by WWE in 1999. It was held annually from 1999 to 2009, however, it was then discontinued until it was reinstated in 2016 and has been held every year since, except in 2019. The original concept of the event was based around the backlash from WWE's flagship event, WrestleMania. The events between 2016 and 2020 did not carry this theme; however, the 2021 event returned Backlash to its original concept.
On January 31, 2026, WWE Chief Content Officer Paul "Triple H" Levesque announced that the 21st Backlash, promoted as Backlash: Tampa, would take place on Saturday, May 9, 2026, at the Benchmark International Arena in Tampa, Florida, and would feature wrestlers from the Raw and SmackDown brand divisions. It was themed around the backlash of WrestleMania 42. This marked WWE's first major event to be held in Tampa since Hell in a Cell in 2021 during the ThunderDome era. WWE ambassador and retired wrestler John Cena also appeared to make a major announcement.


=== Broadcast outlets ===
In addition to airing on traditional pay-per-view (PPV) worldwide, it was available to livestream on ESPN's direct-to-consumer streaming service in the United States, Netflix in most international markets, SuperSport in Sub-Saharan Africa, and Abema in Japan. This marked the first Backlash to livestream on ESPN in the United States, as WWE's contract with Peacock to air main roster PPV and livestreaming events expired at the conclusion of Clash in Paris in August 2025. During the May 1 episode of Friday Night SmackDown, WWE announced that in the United States, the first hour would be simulcast on ESPN2, marking the first Backlash to air on an ESPN linear channel.
In order to lower the risk of clashing with the UFC 328 main card, the event had a special start time of 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time, which was the third consecutive Backlash to take place on the same night as an Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) PPV since the formation of TKO Group Holdings.


=== Storylines ===
The event included five matches that resulted from scripted storylines. Results were predetermined by WWE's writers on the Raw and SmackDown brands, while storylines were produced on WWE's weekly television shows, Monday Night Raw and Friday Night SmackDown.
At WrestleMania 41, Seth Rollins allied himself with Paul Heyman. On the following episode of Raw, Bron Breakker also aligned himself with Rollins and Heyman. At Saturday Night's Main Event XXXIX on May 24, Bronson Reed returned to assist Rollins and Breakker in a victorious effort, leading to the formation of The Vision. However, months later on the October 13 episode of Raw, Breakker and Reed turned on Rollins, attacking him and expelling him from the group. Because of the attack, Rollins was forced to vacate the World Heavyweight Championship. After that, The Vision added Logan Paul and Austin Theory to the group. At the Royal Rumble, during the eponymous match, a masked individual attacked Breakker, causing his elimination. Following that, a series of attacks by masked individuals targeted The Vision over several weeks. During this time, both Breakker and Reed were sidelined with an injury. At Elimination Chamber on February 28, a returning Rollins revealed himself as the masked assailant after interfering in the men's Elimination Chamber match to attack Paul. On Night 1 of WrestleMania 42, Rollins lost his match against Gunther after Breakker returned and struck Rollins with a spear. On the following Raw, The Vision welcomed back Breakker, who trash talked Rollins, with him subsequently attacking Breakker before being outnumbered by Theory and Paul. Despite external interference from the returning Street Profits (Angelo Dawkins and Montez Ford), who fended off Paul and Theory, Breakker got the upper hand on Rollins. The following week, Rollins called out Breakker questioning his actions, to which Breakker replied that he was tired of fighting Rollins' battles, and that he only joined Rollins because he needed Heyman on his side. Rollins then challenged Breakker to a match at Backlash, which was later made official.
After SummerSlam in August 2025, Rhea Ripley and Iyo Sky, who both competed for the Women's World Championship at the event, maintained a friendly relationship, much to the dismay of Sky's former Damage CTRL stablemates The Kabuki Warriors (Asuka and Kairi Sane), but more specifically Asuka, who confronted Sky multiple times. On the September 22 episode of Raw, Asuka and a conflicted Sane betrayed Sky. This began a rivalry, with Ripley and Sky subsequently defeating The Kabuki Warriors at Crown Jewel. After that, The Kabuki Warriors won the WWE Women's Tag Team Championship, and Ripley and Sky subsequently faced The Kabuki Warriors multiple times in singles and tag team matches, including Ripley and Sky's team defeating The Kabuki Warriors' team in the Women's WarGames match at Survivor Series: WarGames, and also defeating them on the Raw on Netflix Anniversary Show on January 5, 2026, to win the title. On the February 27 episode of SmackDown, Ripley and Sky, now known as Rhiyo, lost the title. After that, Asuka continually mistreated Sane for her failures to help her, and on the March 23 episode of Raw, Sky approached Sane and stated she deserved better treatment. The following week, Asuka and Sane appeared ringside during Sky's match, with Asuka forcing Sane to interfere, however, Sane did nothing. After Sky spotted Asuka mistreating Sane at ringside, Sky attacked Asuka, a distraction that cost Sky the match. On the Raw before WrestleMania 42, Sky faced Sane, and despite Ripley's involvement, Asuka interfered and cost Sky the win. The following week, Rhiyo defeated The Kabuki Warriors in a tag team match. Following that, Ripley was transferred to the SmackDown brand after winning the WWE Women's Championship while Sane was legitimately released from WWE. On the April 27 episode, Asuka attacked Sky, costing her a match for the WWE Women's Intercontinental Championship. Later that night, it was subsequently announced that Asuka would face Sky at Backlash.

In June 2024, Jacob Fatu, a member of the prominent Anoaʻi family made his WWE debut joining The Bloodline stable, led by Solo Sikoa, and once led by Roman Reigns. After Reigns returned at SummerSlam to cost Sikoa an Undisputed WWE Championship match, Fatu, as Sikoa's enforcer, was then embroiled into a feud with Reigns. At Bad Blood on October 5, Fatu and Sikoa lost to Reigns in a tag team match after interference from a returning Jimmy Uso, marking Fatu's first loss in WWE. At Crown Jewel on November 2, Fatu, Sikoa, and Tama Tonga defeated the original incarnation of The Bloodline of Reigns and The Usos (Jimmy and Jey Uso) in a six-man tag team match. At Survivor Series: WarGames on November 30, The Bloodline's team lost to Reigns and The Usos' team in a WarGames match. Reigns would then reclaim the Tribal Chief title on the Raw premiere on Netflix in January 2025 by defeating Sikoa to end the rivalry. After multiple weeks of dissension, Fatu betrayed Sikoa at Money at the Bank on June 7 by attacking him in the namesake ladder match, leaving The Bloodline and turning face. After Reigns won the men's Royal Rumble match at the eponymous event in January 2026, Reigns subsequently won the World Heavyweight Championship in the main event of Night 2 of WrestleMania 42. Reigns and The Usos reunited the following night on Raw, but they were interrupted by Fatu, who was part of SmackDown at the time, with Fatu stating that he wanted everything that Reigns had, including the title, before challenging Reigns to a title match at Backlash. Reigns stated that he did not think Fatu was ready for a title match and said he would give Fatu a week before making his decision. There, Reigns stated that he still felt that Fatu did not deserve a title match, and that giving him one would be nepotism. After Fatu attacked Reigns, he accepted the challenge.
On Night 2 of WrestleMania 42, Trick Williams, accompanied by Lil Yachty, defeated Sami Zayn to win the WWE United States Championship. On that week's SmackDown, during Williams and Yachty's celebration, they appeared with a gingerbread man mascot, which Williams had already used the previous week to mock Zayn. There, the mascot attacked Yachty and Williams before revealing itself to be Zayn in disguise, who subsequently performed a Helluva Kick on Williams. The following week, Zayn destroyed the Gingerbread man costume, prompting Williams to attack Zayn. Later that night, Williams challenged Zayn with his title on the line at Backlash, which Zayn accepted and it was made official by SmackDown General Manager Nick Aldis.
At Elimination Chamber in February, Danhausen made his WWE debut. On the following week's episode of SmackDown, Danhausen talked with the brand's General Manager Nick Aldis about being inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame and stated that Aldis should find him a mentor to help on it. Aldis then introduced The Miz to Danhausen, however Miz did not like the idea, and Danhausen "cursed" Miz in response. Miz continued to be "cursed" by Danhausen, leading him into a streak of bad luck, however, Miz refused to believe that the "curse" existed. During this time, Miz allied himself with Kit Wilson, who also took issues with Danhausen and was "cursed" in the process; in one of the ocasions, both Miz and Wilson lost a WWE Tag Team Championship match after the referee suffered a cramp in his arm, preventing him from counting a pinfall. Wilson subsequently lost a match against Danhausen after a pyro malfunction on the April 10 episode. On Night 2 of WrestleMania 42, Miz and Wilson interrupted the event's host John Cena as Miz demanded a WrestleMania moment. Danhausen appeared, accompanied by little people dressed like him. After Wilson called one of the little people "toxic", Danhausen ordered another little person to hit Wilson with a low blow and then all of them attacked him. Then, Danhausen performed an eye poke variant of Cena's Five Knuckle Shuffle on Miz. On that week's SmackDown, Miz also lost to Danhausen after another pyro malfunction, and on the May 1 episode after both Miz and Wilson unsuccessfully tried to trap Danhausen, Miz subsequently said he believed in the "curse" and agreed to mentor Danhausen. Afterwards, Wilson appeared and begged Miz not to join Danhausen. While Miz initially seemed to join forces with Danhausen, he instead attacked him, revealing the turn to be a ruse, with Wilson joining the assault. Later that night, Danhausen spoke with Aldis, who granted him a tag team match against Miz and Wilson at Backlash, however, Danhausen would have to find a tag team partner, which he agreed.


== Event ==


=== Preliminary matches ===
Seth Rollins versus Bron Breakker (accompanied by Paul Heyman) opened the event. Breakker immediately missed a spear, allowing Rollins to inflict early offense before Breakker could gain control. At ringside, Rollins interrupted a charge by Breakker with a superkick. Breakker sent Rollins over the announce table with a clothesline. Rollins attempted a superplex, which Breakker reversed into a Falcon Arrow for a two-count. After Rollins countered a Frankensteiner, he executed a Pedigree and a Stomp. Heyman made a distraction, allowing Breakker's The Vision stablemates Logan Paul and Austin Theory to interfere; however, Rollins sent them running with a steel chair. As Rollins re-entered the ring, Breakker immediately hit him with a spear for a near-fall. After Rollins countered another spear into a Pedigree, Breakker intercepted a Stomp from the middle rope with a spear followed by another spear for the pinfall victory.
The next match was a WrestleMania rematch for the WWE United States Championship between champion Trick Williams (accompanied by Lil Yachty) and challenger Sami Zayn. Zayn attacked Williams with chops in the corner, but Williams eventually retaliated with a clothesline at ringside. Zayn responded with a Blue Thunder Bomb. He then faked a knee injury for a roll-up pin attempt. After Yachty distracted the referee, Zayn hit Williams with a kendo stick. As Zayn prepared for the Helluva Kick, Yachty hit Zayn with a kendo stick, allowing Williams to land the Trick Kick for a near-fall. Zayn executed a DDT on Williams against the steel steps before attacking Yachty with a kendo stick and a Helluva Kick. Zayn missed the Helluva Kick on Williams as he countered with the Trick Shot to retain the title.
Next, Danhausen and his mystery partner faced The Miz and Kit Wilson. Danhausen opened his "cloning machine" to reveal Minihausen as his partner. Wilson attacked Minihausen, who responded with strikes and a springboard spinning shoulder. Minihausen chased Wilson toward the stage, eventually entering the cloning machine. After the machine was activated, multiple versions of Minihausen emerged and attacked Wilson; the original Minihausen then performed an airplane spin into a Wasteland on Wilson. Wilson blocked the curse with a mirror and then Miz hit Minihausen with the Skull Crushing Finale. Danhausen broke the ensuing pinfall attempt. Miz tried to use a fire extinguisher that malfunctioned and sprayed Miz and Wilson in the eyes. Danhausen then delivered a pump kick to Miz for the win.
Iyo Sky versus Asuka followed. Sky sent Asuka into the corner and kicked her in the face while utilizing the ring apron. Asuka trapped Sky in a Boston crab through the ropes and began targeting Sky's arm. Sky countered an armbar attempt by applying the Asuka Lock, forcing Asuka to break the hold with the ropes. At ringside, Asuka attempted to blind Sky with the green mist but Sky blocked it with a laptop followed by a crossbody off the announce table. Sky attempted the Over the Moonsault, which Asuka successfully blocked. Asuka then applied the Asuka Lock; however, Sky managed to roll through to reach the ropes. Sky was hit with a German Suplex but responded with a German Suplex of her own. She then executed the Bullet Train Attack and the Over the Moonsault to defeat Asuka. After the match, both competitors embraced each other.
John Cena came out to announce the John Cena Classic, a competition that showcases present stars against future stars. Fans would vote to crown the inaugural champion from a pool of all participants, noting that even those who suffered losses remain eligible to win the competition.


=== Main event ===
Roman Reigns defended the World Heavyweight Championship against Jacob Fatu in the main event. Fatu knocked Reigns to the floor for a suicide dive and applied the Tongan Death Grip, subsequently sending the champion into the ring post. After Fatu voluntarily released the hold, Reigns recovered and executed a neck snap across the top rope. Fatu shoved Reigns from the corner and trapped his arm for a clothesline. When Fatu collided with the ring post, Reigns connected with a Superman Punch for a one-count. Fatu later executed a running Umaga Attack, but Reigns countered with another Superman Punch for a near-fall. At ringside, Fatu powerbombed Reigns through the announcers' table. Back in the ring, Reigns hit a spear for a two-count, but Fatu countered a subsequent charge with a pop-up Samoan drop and a triple jump moonsault for another near-fall. Fatu missed a Swanton bomb onto Reigns' raised knees. Fatu delivered another Umaga Attack and reapplied the Tongan Death Grip; however, Reigns survived the hold. Following a referee bump, Reigns hit a Superman Punch and a spear, although the recovering official stopped the count at two. Fatu attempted the Death Grip a final time, but Reigns sent Fatu face-first into an exposed turnbuckle. Reigns then executed a final spear to retain the championship. After the match, an irate Fatu attacked Reigns, applied another Tongan Death Grip, and stood tall with the championship belt to close out the show.


== Results ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Backlash Official Website