Alan Michael Ritchson (born November 28, 1982) is an American actor. He made his acting debut as Aquaman / Arthur Curry on The CW superhero series Smallville (2005–10), where he appeared as a guest star between the fifth and tenth seasons. He subsequently had a starring role in the Spike TV sitcom Blue Mountain State (2010–2011), a role he reprised in the 2016 film sequel. He also headlined the SyFy action series Blood Drive (2017), and returned to superhero television as Hank Hall / Hawk on the DC Universe / HBO Max series Titans from 2018 to 2021. He gained wider recognition for portraying the title character in the ongoing Amazon Prime Video action thriller series Reacher since 2022. In his latest film appearance, War Machine (2026), Ritchson depicted an army ranger candidate fighting an extraterrestrial killing machine.
Outside television, Ritchson played Raphael in the 2014 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles reboot and its 2016 sequel, along with appearances in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire (2013), Lazer Team (2015), and Fast X (2023). He made his directorial debut and co-starred in the action-comedy Dark Web: Cicada 3301 (2021).


== Early life and education ==
Ritchson was born on November 28, 1982, in Grand Forks, North Dakota. He is the son of Vickie Ritchson, a high school teacher, and David Ritchson, a retired U.S. Air Force chief master sergeant. He has one older brother and one younger brother. The family moved around due to his father's work. They lived in Guam and when he was two, his family moved to Rantoul, Illinois. When he was 10, Ritchson's father was transferred to Eglin Air Force Base and the family lived in Niceville, Florida, which is nearby. He went to Niceville High School graduating in 2001. He was raised Catholic.
While at school, Ritchson was interested in acting and performed in school musicals. He regarded Jim Carrey as his idol. While he was still in high school, he started taking college-level music theater and dance classes. From 1999 to 2001, he was a dual enrollment student at the high school and Okaloosa Walton Community College, now Northwest Florida State College in Niceville. After graduating from high school, he received a full scholarship to study music and theater at the college. He was a member of the Fine Arts Division's Soundsations and Madrigal Singers.  However, Ritchson dropped out after two years "because [he] didn't feel fulfilled". He worked at a gas station for a short time before signing with Next Management in Miami Beach, Florida, to work as a model for a few years.


== Career ==


=== Modeling ===
During his modeling career, Ritchson worked with Bruce Weber, a photographer, for Abercrombie & Fitch catalogue in addition to being an underwear and runway model.


=== Television ===

Ritchson first gained celebrity status in 2004 when he appeared on American Idol as one of the top 87 contestants in the third season before being cut during the Hollywood round. His appearance on the show was noted for his striptease in one episode in which he charmed judge Paula Abdul during his audition. He decided to stay in Los Angeles and pursue an acting career.
His television acting credits include a recurring guest star role on the television series Smallville as superhero Arthur Curry / Aquaman. His role in Smallville marked the first time Aquaman was portrayed by an actor in an officially licensed live-action production. His future Smallville co-star, Justin Hartley, later portrayed Aquaman in an unaired pilot of the same name before joining the cast of Smallville as another character. Ritchson reprised his role as Aquaman in the final season.
Ritchson had a small role as an army officer in the 2006 Hallmark Channel movie Though None Go with Me alongside Cheryl Ladd, and the role of Lucian Manet in the 2009 Lifetime original film Nora Roberts' Midnight Bayou. In 2009, he appeared on a third-season episode of Starz's Head Case in which he played a stripper. Ritchson also appeared on CSI: Miami, in which he played a dead victim in episode 19 of season 8. In 2011, he appeared in an episode of season 3 of 90210 as a love interest for main character Teddy Montgomery (Trevor Donovan).
In 2010, he started playing the main role of Thad Castle, the captain of a college football team, in Spike TV's Blue Mountain State. He stayed on the show until it was cancelled after its third season in February 2012. He also appeared in several television shows, including Hawaii Five-0. In 2015, Ritchson became a regular on the NBC variety show I Can Do That (based on the Israeli variety show) alongside Nicole Scherzinger, Ciara, Joe Jonas, Cheryl Burke and Jeff Dye, and hosted by Marlon Wayans. In 2016, he appeared in "Nosedive", an episode of the anthology series Black Mirror.
In 2017, he played the main character in the Syfy series Blood Drive. In 2018, Ritchson played the recurring role of Hank Hall / Hawk in the DC Universe series Titans. His initial deal was for just two episodes but he was promoted to a series regular for the second season. Producers decided to reduce the number of characters and Ritchson was written out of the series.
In 2020, it was announced that Ritchson would play the role of Jack Reacher in an eponymous series on Amazon Prime.


=== Films ===

His movie credits include a role in the 2006 film The Butcher, as well as a minor role in 2009's Fired Up! In 2007, director Robert Zemeckis used Ritchson for his facial image, physique, and in movement for actor Ray Winstone of the title character of Beowulf.
Ritchson portrayed Gloss, a tribute in the 75th Hunger Games, in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire (2013). Ritchson also portrayed Raphael in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, a reboot to the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film series after the four previous films. Ritchson would later criticize producers of the new TMNT live-action films, claiming they mistreated him and other actors portraying the turtles during and after filming. He returned to the role of Thad Castle in the Blue Mountain State movie, Blue Mountain State: The Rise of Thadland. Ritchson co-starred in Rooster Teeth Production's first feature-length movie—the science fiction comedy Lazer Team in January 2016. He also played a medium role in The Wedding Ringer.
In 2018, Ritchson was announced as the director, co-writer, and producer of Dark Web: Cicada 3301, a comedy-thriller film inspired by the eponymous organization. He also co-starred in it as an NSA agent. The film is the first original project of Phreaker Films, a film fund run by Ritchson. The rights for Dark Web: Cicada 3301 were acquired by Lionsgate in 2020, who released the film digitally on March 12, 2021. In 2022, he joined the cast of Fast X.
In 2024, Ritchson appeared in Jon Gunn's drama movie Ordinary Angels, written by Meg Tilly and Kelly Fremon Craig, as well as in Guy Ritchie's The Ministry of Ungentlemanly Warfare, an action comedy film. In 2025 he starred in the buddy action comedy film Playdate. 


=== Other work ===
Other projects include an independent album called This Is Next Time, released in late 2005, and appearing in a Russian commercial for Orbit gum. Ritchson appears in a web series titled Enormous Friends with his Blue Mountain State co-star, Rob Ramsay.


== Personal life ==
Ritchson met his wife, Catherine, while he was taking a dance class at a college and they married in 2006. They lived with their three sons in Florida for years. In 2023, the couple decided to sell their home and live on the road, allowing Ritchson to spend more time with his family. The family stays in Airbnbs and hotels; Catherine, a financial analyst, homeschools their sons.
Ritchson has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder and has spoken openly about his struggles with the condition.
In March 2026, Ritchson was involved in a physical altercation with neighbor Ronnie Taylor in Brentwood, Tennessee; while Ritchson rode his motorcycle through the neighborhood, Taylor stepped in front of Ritchson, blocking his path and chastising Ritchson for this being a danger to children playing in the area. Ronnie then initiated a physical confrontation and Ritchson acted in self-defense. The police were called, but Ritchson declined to pursue charges.


=== Religious and political views ===
Ritchson is a practicing Christian. He frequently discusses the significance of his faith, and has expressed a desire to support the development of Christian films in Hollywood. He started the YouTube channel InstaChurch, in January 2022, where he discusses his convictions. Though raised Catholic, he does not consider himself as such, stating "I can't for one second support the Catholic Church while there are still cardinals, bishops and priests being passed around with known pedophilic tendencies."
On April 3, 2024, The Hollywood Reporter published an interview of Ritchson in which he says that he had once been sexually assaulted by a "very famous photographer" and for this reason, he left his modeling career.  He described the modeling industry as "legalized sex trafficking" for photographers. In the same interview, Ritchson also criticized Christian supporters of Donald Trump, saying: "Trump is a rapist and a con man, and yet the entire Christian church seems to treat him like he's their poster child and it's unreal. I don't understand it."
In a February 2025 interview with GQ, Ritchson indicated that former congressman Matt Gaetz had been a classmate of his. Ritchson called Gaetz a "motherfucker", an "adversary" and "not a good dude". In the same interview, he expressed admiration for US senator Bernie Sanders, calling him a "hero".
Ritchson has expressed support for psychedelic therapy, and credits MDMA with treating his suicidal ideation.


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===


=== Television ===


=== Video games ===
Beowulf: The Game (2007), as Beowulf (character model)


== Discography ==
Albums

This Is Next Time (2006)


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Alan Ritchson at IMDb