Andrew Murray Burnham (born 7 January 1970) is a British politician serving as the Mayor of Greater Manchester since 2017. A member of the Labour and Co-operative Party, he previously served as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Leigh from 2001 until 2017. During his parliamentary career, he held several senior cabinet positions under Prime Minister Gordon Brown, including Secretary of State for Health from 2009 to 2010, Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport from 2008 to 2009, and Chief Secretary to the Treasury from 2007 to 2008. Burnham is associated with the soft left of the Labour Party and identifies politically as a socialist.
Born in Aintree, Lancashire, a suburb of Liverpool, and raised in Culcheth, Cheshire, Burnham attended St Aelred's Catholic High School and joined the Labour Party at the age of 15. He studied at Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, and subsequently worked as a researcher for Tessa Jowell, as a parliamentary officer for the NHS Confederation and as an administrator with the Football Task Force. From 1998 to 2001, he was a special advisor to Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport Chris Smith. At the 2001 general election, Burnham was elected to the House of Commons as Member of Parliament (MP) for Leigh in Greater Manchester.
Burnham served as a Parliamentary private secretary from 2003 to 2005. He was promoted by Prime Minister Tony Blair to serve in his government after the 2005 election as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department. In 2006, Burnham was reshuffled to become Minister of State for Health. He was promoted by Prime Minister Gordon Brown as Chief Secretary to the Treasury, a position he held until 2008, when he became Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. In 2009, he was promoted again to become Health Secretary. In that role, he responded to the swine flu pandemic, opposed further privatisation of National Health Service services and launched an independent inquiry into the Stafford Hospital scandal. Following the 2010 general election which resulted in a hung parliament, Burnham was a candidate in the Labour leadership election which was won by Ed Miliband, coming fourth out of five candidates. Burnham served as Shadow Secretary of State for Health until late 2010, when he became Shadow Secretary of State for Education. He held that role for a year, then returned to the role of Shadow Health Secretary.
Following the 2015 general election, Burnham launched his campaign in the resulting leadership election, and finished a distant second behind Jeremy Corbyn, after which he accepted the role of Shadow Home Secretary. After being selected as Labour's candidate for the new Greater Manchester Mayoralty, Burnham stood down as Shadow Home Secretary in 2016 and as an MP at the 2017 general election. Burnham won the 2017 mayoral election, was re-elected in the delayed election held in May 2021, and elected for a third time in the 2024 election, two months before the Labour Party won that year's general election. In 2026, Burnham applied to be the Labour Party candidate in the 2026 Gorton and Denton by-election but his candidacy was blocked by the party's National Executive Committee. The by-election was ultimately won by Hannah Spencer of the Green Party, whom Burnham previously beat in the 2024 mayoral election. His future political ambitions are a frequent subject of national debate, particularly regarding a potential third bid for the Labour Party leadership and to potentially challenge Prime Minister Keir Starmer for the Labour leadership, amid an ongoing crisis around Starmer's leadership in May 2026.
As Mayor of Greater Manchester, Burnham has implemented reforms to public transport, taking buses back into local control and bringing them, along with trams, into an integrated London-style transport system – the Bee Network. For his role campaigning to secure more furlough funding for Northern communities during the COVID-19 pandemic, he was dubbed "King of the North" by both the media and Northerners – even outside Greater Manchester – a title which, despite being used sarcastically at first, has grown into a term of endearment. As of 2026, Burnham is most popular Labour politician.


== Early life and education ==
Andrew Murray Burnham was born on 7 January 1970 in Aintree, Lancashire, a suburb of Liverpool. His father, Kenneth Roy Burnham, was a telephone engineer and his mother, Eileen Mary Burnham, was a receptionist. He was brought up in Culcheth and educated at St Lewis Catholic Primary School and St Aelred's Roman Catholic High School, in Newton-le-Willows. He read English at Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge. He had described himself as "Catholic by upbringing" but "not particularly religious", adding: "Catholic social teaching underpins my politics. We did have to read the catechism at school but it is powerful and strong and right".


== Career ==
Burnham joined the Labour Party when he was 15. From 1994 until the 1997 general election he was a researcher for Tessa Jowell. He joined the Transport and General Workers' Union in 1995. Following the 1997 election, he was a parliamentary officer for the NHS Confederation from August to December 1997, before taking up the post as an administrator with the Football Task Force for a year. In 1998, he became a special adviser to the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, Chris Smith, a position he remained in until he was elected to the House of Commons in 2001.


=== Member of Parliament ===
Following the retirement of Lawrence Cunliffe, Burnham successfully applied to be the parliamentary candidate for Leigh in Greater Manchester, then a safe Labour seat. At the 2001 election he was elected with a majority of 16,362, and gave his maiden speech in the House of Commons on 4 July 2001. Following his election to Parliament, Burnham was a member of the Health Select Committee from 2001 until 2003, when he was appointed Parliamentary private secretary (PPS) to the Home Secretary David Blunkett. Following Blunkett's first resignation in 2004, he became PPS to the education secretary Ruth Kelly. Burnham voted for the Iraq War, and consistently voted against holding an inquiry into the war.


=== In Government (2005–2010) ===

Following the 2005 election Burnham was promoted to serve in the Government as a Parliamentary Under Secretary of State, with responsibility for implementing the Identity Cards Act 2006. In the government reshuffle of 5 May 2006, he was moved from the Home Office and promoted to Minister of State for Delivery and Reform at the Department of Health. In Gordon Brown's first cabinet, announced on 28 June 2007, Burnham was appointed Chief Secretary to the Treasury, a position he held until 2008. During his time at the Treasury, he helped write the 2007 Comprehensive Spending Review.


==== Brown Cabinet (2008–2010) ====
In a re-shuffle in January 2008, Burnham was promoted to the position of Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, replacing James Purnell. In June 2008, he apologised to the director of pressure group Liberty, Shami Chakrabarti, after she threatened to sue him for libel for smearing her reputation in an article Burnham had written for Progress magazine.
In late 2008, Burnham announced government plans to tighten controls on internet content in order to "even up" what he described as an imbalance with TV regulations. The announcement was followed by a speech to the music industry's lobbying group, UK Music, in which he announced "a time that calls for partnership between Government and the music business as a whole: one with rewards for both of us; one with rewards for society as a whole. (...) My job – Government's job – is to preserve the value in the system."
In April 2009, after being heckled at the 20th anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster, Burnham used the next day's cabinet meeting in Downing Street to ask Prime Minister Gordon Brown if he could raise the issue of Hillsborough in Parliament, and Brown agreed. The eventual result was the second Hillsborough inquiry. In 2014, when Burnham spoke at the 25th anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster, he was cheered and applauded by the crowd.

In June 2009, Burnham was again promoted, becoming Secretary of State for Health. He held the post until the Labour government resigned following the 2010 general election. In July 2009, a month after he became health secretary, Burnham launched an independent inquiry chaired by the QC Robert Francis into unusually high mortality rates at Stafford Hospital. The inquiry found systematic failures at the hospital, and was critical of care provided by the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust. A wider public inquiry, also led by Robert Francis, was launched in 2010 by his successor as health secretary, Andrew Lansley. It found serious failings at the hospital but concluded it would be "misleading" to link those failings to a particular number of deaths.
After leaving office, reports claimed that Burnham and his predecessor as health secretary, Alan Johnson, had rejected 81 requests for an inquiry sitting in public to examine the high rate of deaths at Stafford hospital. According to The Daily Telegraph, after initial concerns were raised about links between mortality rates and standards of care in 2005, there were up to 2,800 more deaths than expected across 14 NHS trusts highlighted as having unusually high death rates. However, these figures for deaths were discredited. A report, the Keogh Review, following an investigation into the 14 NHS trusts by Bruce Keogh, described the use of such statistical measures as "clinically meaningless and academically reckless".
As health secretary, Burnham proposed the creation of a National Care Service, which would introduce a publicly funded system of social care free at the point of use along the same lines of the National Health Service. In July 2009, the Department of Health released its green paper Shaping the Future of Care Together, which proposed a National Care Service "on par with the NHS". This was followed by a public consultation in September called the "Big Care Debate", which was promoted by Prime Minister Gordon Brown as a "crucial national debate". The consultation found a public desire for social care reform and explored different ways to introduce the NCS. The government decided to introduce the NCS gradually and in different stages, with the first stage beginning with the Personal Care at Home Act 2010, which was passed in April 2010.
Burnham formally launched the NCS a month earlier, giving all elderly and disabled people free social care. The second stage was planned to begin from 2014 and would extend free social care to people who were in residential care for more than two years. A third and final stage would fully introduce the NCS, giving all adults free social care after 2015. However, following Labour's defeat in the 2010 general election, the Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition of David Cameron and Nick Clegg scrapped the NCS and the Personal Care at Home Act 2010 was later repealed.


=== In Opposition (2010–2017) ===


==== First leadership campaign (2010) ====
In May 2010, following the defeat of Gordon Brown's government, Burnham became Shadow Secretary of State for Health. After Brown's resignation as leader of the Labour Party, Burnham declared his intention to stand in the subsequent leadership contest. He launched his leadership campaign in his Leigh constituency on 26 May. Burnham stood on his philosophy of "aspirational socialism", aligning himself with Intern Aware's campaign to end unpaid internships. He made policy commitments including re-creating the National Care Service, which he had previously introduced as health secretary before its abolition by the Coalition, and replacing inheritance tax with a land value tax. Burnham finished fourth, eliminated on the second ballot with 10.4% of the vote. The leadership contest was won by Ed Miliband.


==== Miliband Shadow Cabinet (2010–2015) ====

In October 2010, Burnham was appointed Shadow Secretary of State for Education and election co-ordinator for the Labour Party. As shadow education secretary, Burnham opposed the coalition government's plans for "free schools". He argued for moving the education system back towards a comprehensive system. A year later, he was appointed to the role of Shadow Secretary of State for Health, which he held until 2015. In July 2013 The Daily Telegraph reported that Burnham's staff had edited his Wikipedia page to remove criticisms of his handling of the Stafford Hospital scandal. Burnham's office claimed they had removed false statements that had been drawn to their attention.


==== Second leadership campaign (2015) ====

On 13 May 2015, Burnham announced that he would stand to replace Ed Miliband in the 2015 leadership election. He stressed the need to unite the party and country and "rediscover the beating heart of Labour". He attracted press criticism for claiming £17,000 in expenses to rent a London flat, despite owning another within walking distance of the House of Commons. A spokesperson for Burnham said that renting out the original flat was necessary to "cover his costs" as parliamentary rule changes meant he was no longer able to claim for mortgage interest expenses.
Burnham was criticised for jokingly saying that Labour should have a woman leader "when the time is right", with the New Statesman saying that he had "tripped over his mouth again". He also said that he would resign from the Shadow Cabinet if Labour supported leaving NATO, something which Jeremy Corbyn had talked about. Burnham was criticised for refusing to talk to The Sun newspaper when it emerged he had been interviewed by The Sun in his previous run for the Labour leadership, and had been photographed in the back of a cab for the newspaper. Burnham abstained on the government's welfare bill, despite having previously described the legislation as "unsupportable". Burnham came second to Corbyn in the election, with 19% of the vote in the first round, compared to 59% for Corbyn.


==== Shadow Cabinet (2015–2017) ====

In September 2015, Burnham accepted an appointment as shadow home secretary in the first Corbyn shadow cabinet and remained in the role after the 2016 reshuffle. Burnham opposed the Prevent counter-terrorism strategy; appearing in 2016 alongside the anti-Prevent organisation MEND, Burnham said: "The Prevent duty to report extremist behaviour is today's equivalent of internment in Northern Ireland."
On 27 April 2016, the day after the Hillsborough inquest verdict that found the 96 Hillsborough deaths had occurred as a result of unlawful killing, Burnham made a speech to the House of Commons calling for those responsible to be held to account. Condemning South Yorkshire Police, which had instigated a cover-up in the aftermath of the tragedy, he described the force as being "rotten to the core" while suggesting that the cover-up had been "advanced in the committee rooms of this House and in the press rooms of 10 Downing Street". The eleven-minute statement drew applause from MPs, a response that is generally against convention at Westminster.
On 25 April 2017, as his final act in Parliament, he delivered an adjournment debate that lasted over an hour on the Infected blood scandal. Burnham used the debate to present a raft of evidence stating "this scandal amounts to a criminal cover-up on an industrial scale" and that "these are criminal acts". He said that if the Government did not set up an Investigation into the scandal that he would refer his evidence to the police.


=== Labour's return to Government (2024–present) ===
Burnham voted for Keir Starmer, who went on to win, in the 2020 Labour Party leadership election, saying in an interview with The Guardian that "Keir is a brilliant man. The fact he was a former DPP, and came to work in my shadow Home Office team with no airs and graces says a lot about Keir Starmer." Following this perceived success, and several by-election losses for Labour in 2021, Burnham was touted by many commentators as a potential future leader of the party. Burnham dismissed this speculation, calling it "annoying", but refused to rule out standing in the future. In September 2023, Burnham was ranked twelfth on the New Statesman's Left Power List, described as a "key dissenter" and a "crucial voice" in the party, as well as a potential future party leader.
Starmer went on to win the 2024 general election, returning Labour to government. Burnham was a panelist for the Sky News coverage of the election, and called Jacob Rees-Mogg losing North East Somerset and Hanham to Labour's Dan Norris a Portillo moment that came shortly after Labour reached the 326 seats needed for a majority. Burnham was among a group of mayors to meet Starmer and Deputy Prime Minister Angela Rayner in Downing Street. 


==== National profile and labour leadership speculation (2025–) ====

While Starmer's honeymoon period was brief, Burnham maintained high approval in Greater Manchester (83% name recognition) by distancing himself from the national Labour leadership. He earned national credit for regional successes, such as bringing the bus network into public ownership. Burnham utilised a soft-left platform at the Compass conference, advocating for wealth taxes and proportional representation. This stood in sharp contrast to Starmer's perceived "gloomy" approach to governance, positioning Burnham as an optimistic alternative. By August 2025, polls identified Burnham as the most popular senior Labour figure. In late September, an Opinium poll gave Starmer a net –40 approval rating compared to Burnham's +10. A poll of Labour members showed 62% would back Burnham in a hypothetical head-to-head against Starmer (29%). 36% of voters preferred Burnham as PM compared to 29% for Starmer.
As rumours of a leadership challenge grew, Starmer's allies reportedly moved to block Burnham from seeking a Parliamentary seat, which is required to lead the party. Despite this, Burnham’s popularity remained strong as he was viewed as "untainted" by the government's unpopular decisions. In January 2026, a poll found voters believed Burnham would do a better job than Starmer in 12 out of 14 domestic categories, including the NHS, taxation, and immigration. Starmer led only in foreign policy and defence, with just 16% of the public believing he is doing "well" overall.
In September 2025, a new network, Mainstream, was formed within the Labour Party, to be a home for 'radical realists' within the party. The group has Burnham's backing. This raised the prospect of a possible leadership challenge. Burnham has said that any leadership challenge is up to Labour MPs. Speaking to The Guardian at the 2025 Labour Party Conference in Liverpool, Burnham asserted that "all I've launched is a debate" about the direction of the party, noting that he was ineligible to make a leadership challenge as he was not an MP. Two polls were released the same day; a YouGov/Sky News survey found that 62% of Labour members would support Burnham over Starmer, whilst a Survation poll found that Burnham would be the first choice of 43% of prospective Labour leaders, with the closest challenger being Wes Streeting at 9%.
Ideologically described as sitting on the soft left of the Labour Party, Mainstream describes itself as the home of Labour's "radical realists" and promotes a democratic socialist platform which includes the introduction of a wealth tax, lifting the two-child benefit cap and the nationalisation of key public industries. According to its organisers, Mainstream is intended to serve as a broad-church for Labour's progressive left, ranging from members on the Labour left to party centrists associated with New Labour, rather than a political faction or caucus. Its membership is formed from a broad alliance of Labour politicians on the Labour left and soft left, as well as the more progressive elements of New Labour. He supports rejoining the European Union. He has suggested the possibility of a land value tax and a revaluation of council tax.
Following media and public speculation, Burnham applied to stand as Labour's candidate in the 2026 Gorton and Denton by-election on 24 January, but was blocked in an 8–1 vote by the National Executive Committee of the Labour Party on 25 January 2026, including by Starmer. Burham found this disappointing and expressed concern about the ruling's impact for the party on the upcoming local elections and national elections in Wales and Scotland. The by-election had been framed by the media as a route for Burnham to return to Westminster and potentially challenge Starmer for the Labour leadership. Concern existed among Labour figures that Burnham's candidacy would lead to a by-election for the position of mayor, which would be costly and politically risky for the party: MP Graham Stringer expressed his reluctance to let Reform UK "have a go" at winning the mayoralty.
Burnham's application for candidacy to stand in the by-election gathered support from other senior Labour figures, including former deputy prime minister Angela Rayner, Mayor of London Sadiq Khan, deputy Labour leader Lucy Powell and Energy Secretary Ed Miliband. Labour sources to the BBC also stated concerns about the "prospect of a divisive campaign". Andrea Egan, the general secretary of the Unison trade union, warned against any potential "stitch-up" in Labour's selection process. Mainstream, a group associated with Burnham, launched a petition to NEC Chair and home secretary Shabana Mahmood calling for a "fair, democratic and open selection". Momentum came out in support for Burnham's bid for the Labour candidacy. Burnham being blocked by the NEC ultimately led to the Green Party candidate Hannah Spencer winning the by-election. Burnham previously beat Spencer in the 2024 mayoral election by a margin of 375,000 votes. After Spencer won the by-election, Burnham publicly congratulated her on her "historic win", noting that he had been isolating with COVID-19 during the final stages of the campaign. Spencer has acknowledged Burnham's local popularity, stating that if he had been the candidate, she would have faced a "harder fight".
Amid an ongoing crisis around Starmer's leadership in May 2026, Burnham has been widely speculated by the media as a potential candidate in a future Labour leadership election to succeed Starmer as prime minister and Labour leader, alongside Wes Streeting, Angela Rayner and Ed Miliband. Becoming prime minister does not require a person to sit in the House of Commons or House of Lords. Alec Douglas-Home was prime minister for a month after disclaiming his peerage but before winning the 1963 Kinross and Western Perthshire by-election. However, Labour party rules require any leadership candidates to be a sitting member of the parliamentary Labour party. This means that Burnham would be required to stand for a seat before launching a leadership challenge, which the NEC could block again. It was reported that the NEC might not block Burnham if he stood for another seat. On 11 May, Rayner said that the NEC blocking Burnham's return to parliament was a mistake. Burnham travelled to London on 12 May to meet MPs. On 13 May Pippa Crerar on Preston (ITV) reported that allies of Burnham say they have found him a seat and speculated that it could be one of the following: Bootle - denied by sitting MP Peter Dowd, Blackley and Broughton - denied by sitting MP Graham Stringer, Leigh and Atherton - denied by sitting MP Jo Platt. Also denying that they plan to step down are: Jeff Smith at Manchester Withington and Afzal Khan at Manchester Rusholme. The programme further speculated - on a map in the studio - that Liverpool Walton, Liverpool Wavertree, St Helens South and Whiston, Makerfield, Stockport and Warrington North could also be the constituency that Burnham's allies were referring to. His candidacy is popular with the soft left of the party. He is considered that factions preferred candidate along with Angela Rayner. Some members of the Tribune group are also supportive. Labour MPs who have supported Burnham publicly include Miatta Fahnbulleh, Rachael Maskell, Clive Lewis, Paula Barker, Richard Burgon, Connor Naismith and Sarah Owen. He has been described as "the only major politician in the country who enjoys positive favourability ratings" according to opinion polls.


=== Mayor of Greater Manchester (2017–present) ===


==== Candidacy and election ====
On 5 May 2016, a spokesperson for Burnham confirmed that he had been approached by party officials in Greater Manchester, asking him to consider resigning from the Shadow Cabinet of Jeremy Corbyn in order to run in the upcoming mayoral election in 2017. On 18 May 2016, he confirmed that he was running for mayor. Burnham was selected as the Labour candidate in August 2016. In September 2016, Burnham said that he would resign as Shadow Home Secretary once a replacement had been found, in order to concentrate on his mayoral bid. He was succeeded by Diane Abbott in October. Burnham said, if elected as Greater Manchester's mayor, he would resign his seat as the member of parliament for Leigh. However, the 2017 general election was declared a fortnight before the mayoral election; Burnham did not stand as a candidate. 
Burnham was elected to the new role of mayor of Greater Manchester on 5 May 2017. Upon taking office, he became entitled to the style of Mayor. He received 63% of the vote, winning majorities in all ten of Greater Manchester's boroughs. In his mayoral victory speech he said that "[politics] has been too London-centric for too long … Greater Manchester is going to take control. We are going to change politics and make it work better for people."
In the election of 6 May 2021, Burnham was re-elected as mayor, with 67% of the vote on a turnout of 34.7%. 
In the 2024 mayoral election, Burnham was elected for a third term with 63.4% of the vote, on a turnout of 32.5%. This was the first Greater Manchester mayoral election to use the first-past-the-post voting system, with Burnham winning in every ward but one.


==== Homelessness and housing ====
The issue of homelessness in Greater Manchester was a major focus of Burnham's mayoral campaign. He pledged to donate 15% of his mayoral salary to charities tackling homelessness if elected. After his election he outlined his plan to launch a "homelessness fund", with money going to homeless charities and mental health and rehabilitation services. He pledged to end rough sleeping in Greater Manchester by 2020, however, in November 2019 he admitted he would miss his target.


==== Public transport ====

In 2020, Burnham signed off on a new £10 yearly charge for pensioners who wished to continue to use their TFGM travel passes on the region's trains and trams. The charge is said to help fund a London-style bus system. Pensioners in London get free travel on all public transport in London from the age of 60, while Burnham kept the Manchester system linked to the much later state pension age. Burnham pledged to bring Manchester's bus network back into public ownership by 2025. The Mayor and Authority's plans were legally challenged by bus operators Stagecoach Group and Rotala, but in March 2022 the Mayor and Authority won the case at the High Court. Media analysts commented that the ruling could pave the way for other city regions in England to regulate bus services that had been privatised since the 1980s. Capped fares of £2 for adult single fares were introduced in September 2022, prior to the bus network becoming regulated.


==== COVID-19 pandemic ====
In March 2020, Burnham called for clearer advice on slowing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, citing his previous experience as health secretary during the 2009 swine flu pandemic. He welcomed the additional measures implemented across Greater Manchester and Lancashire by Secretary of State for Health and Social Care Matt Hancock in July during the pandemic, in the knowledge that (at the time) some areas across North West England had lower infection rates than the rest of the country. 
On 15 October 2020, Burnham, along with other North West leaders, backed away from government talks to place Greater Manchester in tier 3 – the most restrictive level – of a new three-tier categorisation. He cited the grants system for businesses and 80% furlough scheme for employees as insufficient, saying they would push people into poverty and destitution which would outweigh the impact of the virus if mitigated correctly. Many of the concerns such as the impact on businesses and employees were shared by local Conservative MPs in Greater Manchester and surrounding areas. For his role of securing more money for local Northern communities during the COVID-19 pandemic, he was dubbed the "King of the North" by the media. However he did not secure as much extra money as he had wanted, being forced to lower his request for £90 million to £65 million.


==== Investigations into child sexual exploitation ====
Shortly after first being elected as Mayor in 2017, Burnham initiated a review of historical child sexual abuse allegations in Manchester and Rochdale, later expanding the scope of the investigation to Oldham. Part one of the review (focusing on Manchester) reported in 2020, part two (focusing on Oldham) reported in 2022, part three (focusing on Rochdale) reported in 2023 and part four (led by HMICFRS and covering the whole of Greater Manchester) reported in 2025.
In January 2025, Burnham backed calls for a national public inquiry with limited scope into group-based child sexual exploitation (widely referred to as the grooming gangs scandal) and the power to compel people to give evidence. This came a day after the House of Commons voted against a wrecking amendment to the Children's Wellbeing and Schools Bill calling for an inquiry. The amendment, proposed by the Conservative Party, had been subject to a whip which prevented Labour MPs from supporting it.


==== Greater Manchester Baccalaureate ====

Upon his third re-election in 2024, Burnham expressed his wish to "give everyone growing up [in Manchester] an equal alternative to the university route" through the creation of a baccalaureate in collaboration with local and prospective businesses, in an attempt to provide certainty that young people in Greater Manchester have the skills needed by businesses in the area. The scheme, nicknamed the MBacc, aims to be fully operational by 2030.


== Political views ==
Burnham has said that he joined the Labour Party at the age of 15. In 2010, he identified as a socialist. In his 2010 leadership bid Burnham emphasised his philosophy of "aspirational socialism", which he described as redistributive, collectivist and internationalist. He is a strong opponent of nationalism, which he has described as an "ugly brand of politics". In 2020, Iain Martin of The Times described Burnham as a "former Blairite" and associated with New Labour. In a 2010 interview with Andrew Marr, Burnham said he was proud of his association with New Labour. As Mayor of Greater Manchester, Burnham has rejected the approach taken by New Labour on housing and transport but has remained committed to New Labour's "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" approach. Politically, Burnham places himself on the soft left of the Labour Party. His politics have been described as soft left by a number of media outlets, including the Financial Times, the New Statesman, and LabourList.
Burnham supports the use of all-women shortlists for parliamentary candidate selections. Burnham has stated he is a supporter of LGBT rights and voted in favour of same-sex marriage in 2013. In 2020, Burnham met with the anti-transgender UK organisation LGB Alliance to discuss a letter he had written to the government concerning changes to the Gender Recognition Act 2004. When concerns were raised over it being an anti-transgender organisation he replied that there "was no mention in the letter of the LGB Alliance" before the meeting and his representatives replied stating he had "made his support for the trans community very clear over the years". In an interview in The Daily Telegraph in October 2007, Burnham said: "I think it's better when children are in a home where their parents are married" and "it's not wrong that the tax system should recognise commitment and marriage".
In his 2015 leadership bid, Burnham pledged to commit Labour to "a policy of progressive renationalisation of the railway system". Burnham also favours a universal graduate tax to replace student tuition fees. He has advocated a National Care Service, integrating care services into the National Health Service. In his leadership bid, Burnham's key economic policies included a new levy to fund social care, extending the higher minimum wage to under-25s, and banning zero-hour contracts. Burnham described the mansion tax proposed by Ed Miliband as "the politics of envy", saying he knew it would lose votes when his mother phoned and told him it represented a return to the 1970s.
Burnham is a strong supporter of devolving power and, in his 2015 leadership campaign, criticised the "Westminster Bubble" — the London-centric focus in British politics and perceived detachment from life outside Westminster. Some opponents and political commentators accused him of being a part of the same bubble he criticises. He views devolution of powers to Greater Manchester (including its elected mayor) as an opportunity for urban regeneration. He also called for a focus on Northern identity. After he was elected as Mayor of Greater Manchester, he described the new powers for northern cities as "the dawn of a new era". Burnham feels the government does not invest enough money in the North of England, saying: "Almost five years after the government promised us a northern powerhouse, we learn that public spending in the north has fallen while rising in the south. This has got to stop and it is time that the north came to the front of the queue for public investment".
Burnham is a supporter of an elected House of Lords and for switching elections to the House of Commons to a form of proportional representation.


=== Head North ===
In 2024, Burham co-authored Head North: A Rallying Cry for a More Equal Britain with the Liverpool City Region Mayor Steve Rotheram. The book was described by Benjamin Myers for The Observer as "offering hope to the northern regions when it is most needed, and reminding us that those politicians who refuse to toe the party line are often those who history remembers most favourably." In contrast, it was described by Jonathan Ball in the New Statesman as simplifying the North–South divide in England to "'London elite' vs 'neglected north' caricatures".


== Personal life ==
Burnham married Marie-France van Heel, who is Dutch, in 2000, having been in a relationship since university. The couple have a son and two daughters. Burnham was brought up as a Roman Catholic. In the 2015 leadership contest he praised Pope Francis, but urged him to promote a progressive stance on gay rights. In a newspaper interview during the contest he stated that he had been repeatedly at odds with the Catholic Church all the time that he had been an MP and that this had resulted in strained personal relationships. Burnham has a brother, Nick, who is the principal of Cardinal Newman College in Preston.
Burnham is a supporter of rugby league and was the honorary chairman of Leigh Centurions for a short time and is now an honorary vice-president. Burnham was a talented junior cricketer (playing for Lancashire CCC Juniors) and keen footballer, and competed at both sports for his college. He has played for Labour's "Demon Eyes" football team and is a lifelong fan of Premier League football club Everton. In July 2003, Burnham played for Conference club Leigh RMI in a pre-season friendly against Everton. He came on as an 88th minute substitute for Neil Robinson in the 1–1 draw at Hilton Park. His entry in Who's Who lists his recreations as football (Everton F.C.), rugby league (Leigh RLC) and cricket.
In December 2017 it was announced that Burnham would succeed Dean Andrew as president of the Rugby Football League in July 2018. Burnham was replaced by Tony Adams as president of the league in the summer of 2019. Burnham was ordered to pay £1,984 in fines, charges, and costs and given six penalty points after he had admitted to driving at 78mph on a motorway where there was a temporarily reduced 40 mph speed limit in July 2022.


== In media ==
Burnham was portrayed by Matthew McNulty in Anne (2022), an ITV miniseries about the Hillsborough disaster.
Burnham features in the song ‘Andy Burnham dance’ by Harry Hill.


== References ==


== Notes ==


== External links ==

Andy Burnham on X

Profile at Parliament of the United Kingdom
Contributions in Parliament at Hansard
Contributions in Parliament at Hansard 1803–2005
Voting record at Public Whip
Record in Parliament at TheyWorkForYou


=== Audio clips ===
Interview with GMR after 2005 election BBC Manchester


=== Video clips ===
Delivering 18 week NHS target YouTube
Appearances on C-SPAN